Psalm 130:5 - NCB - I wait for the Lord in anxious expectation; I place my hope in his word.
Colossians 3:15 - NCB - And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in one body. And be thankful.
Matthew 5:13 - NCB - You are the salt of the earth, but if salt has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored? It is no longer good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled under people's feet.
Deuteronomy 7:9 - NCB - Know therefore that the Lord your God is God, the faithful God who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his commandments, to a thousand generations.
Psalm 40:9 - NCB - To do your will, O God, is my delight; your law is in my heart.
Romans 5:15 - NCB - But the free gift is not like the trespass. For if many died through one man's trespass, much more have the grace of God and the free gift by the grace of that one man Jesus Christ abounded for many.
Ezekiel 36:26 - NCB - And I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you. And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh.
Romans 8:28 - NCB - And we know that for those who love God all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose.
1 Timothy 6:10 - NCB - For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evils. It is through this craving that some have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many pangs.
Galatians 5:6 - NCB - For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything, but only faith working through love.
Romans 8:6 - NCB - For to set the mind on the flesh is death, but to set the mind on the Spirit is life and peace.
Acts 10:47 - NCB - Can anyone withhold water for baptizing these people, who have received the Holy Spirit just as we have?
Isaiah 55:8 - NCB - For my thoughts are not your thoughts, nor are your ways my ways, says the Lord.
1 Corinthians 12:13 - NCB - For in one Spirit we were all baptized into one body—Jews or Greeks, slaves or free—and all were made to drink of one Spirit.
Exodus 20:23 - NCB - You shall not make gods of silver to be with me, nor shall you make for yourselves gods of gold.
Romans 8:38-39 - NCB - For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels nor rulers, nor things present nor things to come, nor powers, nor height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord.
2 Corinthians 3:18 - NCB - And we all, with unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another. For this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit.
Matthew 5:10 - NCB - Blessed are those who are persecuted in the cause of justice, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
John 1:33 - NCB - I myself did not know him, but the one who sent me to baptize with water told me, ‘The one on whom you see the Spirit descend and rest is the one who is to baptize with the Holy Spirit.
Ezekiel 18:21 - NCB - But if a wicked person turns away from all his sins that he has committed and keeps all my statutes and does what is just and right, he shall surely live; he shall not die.
Ephesians 5:8 - NCB - For at one time you were darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light.
Jeremiah 17:9-10 - NCB - The heart is more deceitful than any other thing, and it is also perverse. Who can uncover its secrets? I, the Lord, search the heart and probe the mind to reward all according to their conduct and as their deeds deserve.
Proverbs 21:2 - NCB - A mans ways may seem right to him, but the Lord weighs the heart.
John 8:44 - NCB - You are from your father, the devil, and you choose to carry out your fathers desires. He was a murderer from the beginning, and he does not abide by the truth, for there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks in accord with his own nature, for he is a liar and the father of lies.
Mark 9:23 - NCB - And Jesus said to him, "‘If you can! All things are possible for one who believes."
Hebrews 5:9 - NCB - And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation to all who obey him.
Philippians 4:12 - NCB - I know how to be brought low, and I know how to abound. In any and every circumstance, I have learned the secret of facing plenty and hunger, abundance and need.
Ecclesiastes 3:11 - NCB - He has made everything beautiful in its time. Also, he has put eternity into man's heart, yet so that he cannot find out what God has done from the beginning to the end.
Acts 10:43 - NCB - To him all the prophets bear witness that everyone who believes in him receives forgiveness of sins through his name.
1 Corinthians 15:56 - NCB - The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law.
2 John 1:8 - NCB - Watch yourselves, so that you may not lose what we have worked for, but may win a full reward.
Ecclesiastes 3:1 - NCB - For everything there is a season, and a time for every activity under heaven.
1 John 4:11 - NCB - Beloved, since God loved us so much, we should love one another.
Hebrews 11:11 - NCB - By faith Sarah herself received power to conceive, even when she was past the age, since she considered him faithful who had promised.
Zechariah 14:9 - NCB - And the Lord shall be King over all the earth. In that day it shall be— "The Lord is one," And His name one.
Galatians 3:28 - NCB - There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is no male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus.
Psalm 13:6-7 - NCB - As for me, I trust in your kindness; my heart rejoices in your salvation. I will sing to the Lord because he has been good to me.
John 14:23 - NCB - Jesus answered him, "Whoever loves me will keep my word, and my Father will love him, and we will come to him and make our abode with him."
Nehemiah 8:10 - NCB - Then he said to them, "Go your way. Eat the fat and drink sweet wine and send portions to anyone who has nothing ready, for this day is holy to our Lord. And do not be grieved, for the joy of the Lord is your strength."
Jonah 2:10 - NCB - But I with hymns of praise will offer sacrifice to you. What I have vowed I will fulfill. Salvation comes from the Lord.
Psalm 31:16 - NCB - My life is in your hands; deliver me from the power of my enemies, from the clutches of those who pursue me.
1 Corinthians 15:34 - NCB - Wake up from your drunken stupor, as is right, and do not go on sinning. For some have no knowledge of God. I say this to your shame.
Acts 1:8 - NCB - But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth.
Galatians 6:8 - NCB - For the one who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption, but the one who sows to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap eternal life.
Psalm 1:1 - NCB - Blessed is the man who does not walk in the counsel of the wicked, nor stand in the way of sinners, nor sit in the company of scoffers.
Matthew 6:25 - NCB - Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing?
Hebrews 4:11 - NCB - Let us therefore strive to enter that rest, so that no one may fall by the same sort of disobedience.
Psalm 62:3 - NCB - He alone is my rock and my salvation, my fortress, so that I stand ever unshaken.
Luke 24:50-51 - NCB - And he led them out as far as Bethany, and lifting up his hands he blessed them. While he blessed them, he parted from them and was carried up into heaven.
Titus 2:1 - NCB - But as for you, teach what accords with sound doctrine.
Proverbs 22:7 - NCB - The wealthy man lords it over the poor, and the borrower becomes the slave of the lender.
Matthew 5:17 - NCB - Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to fulfill them.
Acts 19:5-6 - NCB - On hearing this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. And when Paul had laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came on them, and they began speaking in tongues and prophesying.
Philippians 3:14 - NCB - I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus.
James 1:9-10 - NCB - Let the lowly brother boast in his exaltation, and the rich in his humiliation, because like a flower of the grass he will pass away.
Proverbs 18:22 - NCB - One who finds a wife finds happiness and receives favor from the Lord.
John 7:37 - NCB - On the last and greatest day of the feast, Jesus stood up and cried out, "If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink."
Hebrews 3:12 - NCB - Take care, brothers, lest there be in any of you an evil, unbelieving heart, leading you to fall away from the living God.
Acts 9:31 - NCB - So the church throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria had peace and was being built up. And walking in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Spirit, it multiplied.
John 20:8-9 - NCB - Then the other disciple, who had reached the tomb first, also went in, and he saw and believed; for as yet they did not understand the Scripture, that he must rise from the dead.
John 20:17 - NCB - Jesus said to her, "Do not cling to me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father; but go to my brothers and say to them, ‘I am ascending to my Father and your Father, to my God and your God."
John 3:17 - NCB - For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world but in order that the world might be saved through him.
Romans 8:1-2 - NCB - There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. For the law of the Spirit of life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death.
Matthew 26:26 - NCB - Now as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and after blessing it broke it and gave it to the disciples, and said, "Take, eat; this is my body."
Proverbs 18:2 - NCB - A fool takes no pleasure in understanding but only delights in expressing his own opinions.
Proverbs 18:21 - NCB - The tongue has the power over life and death; those who cherish it will enjoy its fruits.
Luke 17:3b-4 - NCB - If your brother sins, rebuke him, and if he repents, forgive him, and if he sins against you seven times in the day, and turns to you seven times, saying, ‘I repent, you must forgive him.
Hebrews 8:12 - NCB - I shall forgive them for their wicked deeds, and I shall remember their sins no more.
Proverbs 15:33 - NCB - The fear of the Lord provides instruction in wisdom, and to be humble is the way to honor.
Exodus 14:14 - NCB - The Lord will fight for you, and you have only to be silent.
John 16:7 - NCB - Nevertheless, I am telling you the truth: it is better for you that I depart. For if I do not go away, the Advocate will not come to you, whereas if I go, I will send him to you.
Proverbs 15:4 - NCB - A wholesome tongue is a tree of life, but an undisciplined tongue crushes the spirit.
Proverbs 18:24 - NCB - Some friends can lead us to ruin, but a true friend is closer than a brother.
1 John 4:7 - NCB - Beloved, let us love one another, because love is from God. Everyone who loves is born of God and knows God.
Philippians 2:6-8 - NCB - Though he was in the form of God, he did not regard equality with God as something to be grasped. Rather, he emptied himself, taking the form of a slave, being born in human likeness. Being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself, and became obedient to death, even death on a cross.
Revelation 3:21 - NCB - The one who conquers, I will grant him to sit with me on my throne, as I also conquered and sat down with my Father on his throne.
1 John 1:6 - NCB - If we claim that we have fellowship with him while we continue to live in darkness, we are lying and do not live in the truth.
Romans 10:4 - NCB - For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes.
2 Corinthians 13:11 - NCB - Finally, brothers, rejoice. Aim for restoration, comfort one another, agree with one another, live in peace; and the God of love and peace will be with you.
Proverbs 27:17 - NCB - As iron sharpens iron, so a man sharpens the wits of his neighbor.
John 3:6 - NCB - What is born of the flesh is flesh, and what is born of the Spirit is spirit.
Acts 2:41 - NCB - So those who received his word were baptized, and there were added that day about three thousand souls.
Romans 5:7-8 - NCB - For one will scarcely die for a righteous person—though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die— but God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us.
Proverbs 16:16 - NCB - It is better to acquire wisdom rather than gold, and more desirable to acquire understanding rather than silver.
Matthew 12:36 - NCB - I tell you, on the day of judgment people will give account for every careless word they speak.
James 5:16 - NCB - Therefore, confess your sins to one another and pray for one another, that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous person has great power as it is working.
Mark 8:35 - NCB - For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospel's will save it.
Psalm 139:1-2 - NCB - O Lord, you have examined me and you know me. You know when I sit and when I stand; you perceive my thoughts from a distance.
1 John 3:24 - NCB - All those who keep his commandments abide in him, and he abides in them. And the proof that he abides in us is the Spirit that he has given us.
Colossians 2:2 - NCB - That their hearts may be encouraged, being knit together in love, to reach all the riches of full assurance of understanding and the knowledge of God's mystery, which is Christ.
Acts 2:42 - NCB - And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers.
Colossians 3:14 - NCB - And above all these put on love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony.
1 Peter 3:12 - NCB - For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous and his ears are attentive to their prayer. However, the face of the Lord is set against those who do evil.
Habakkuk 3:17-18 - NCB - Even though the fig tree does not blossom and there is no fruit on the vines, even though the olive crop will fail and the orchards will yield no food, even though the flock is cut off from the fold and there is no herd in the stalls, I will continue to rejoice in the Lord, and exult in the God of my salvation.
Song of songs 8:6 - NCB - Set me as a seal on your heart, as a seal upon your arm. For love is as strong as death, and ardor is as relentless as the netherworld. Its flames are flashes of fire, an unending blaze.
Jeremiah 3:12b - NCB - Return, rebel Israel, says the Lord. I will not look upon you in anger. For I am merciful, says the Lord; my wrath will not continue forever.
1 Peter 1:8-9 - NCB - Though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you do not now see him, you believe in him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory, obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls.
Colossians 4:5-6 - NCB - Walk in wisdom toward outsiders, making the best use of the time. Let your speech always be gracious, seasoned with salt, so that you may know how you ought to answer each person.
Ephesians 5:9 - NCB - For the fruit of light is found in all that is good and right and true.
Proverbs 11:25 - NCB - A generous person will be enriched; he who refreshes others will also be refreshed.
1 John 4:4 - NCB - Dear children, you are from God and you have conquered them, for the one who is in you is greater than the one who is in the world.
Psalm 115:3 - NCB - Our God is in heaven; he does whatever he pleases.
Matthew 26:27-28 - NCB - And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, saying, "Drink of it, all of you, for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins."
Mark 8:36 - NCB - For what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his soul?
1 John 2:28 - NCB - And now, dear children, abide in him, so that when he appears we may have confidence and not be put to shame by him at his coming.
Psalm 32:7 - NCB - You are a place of refuge for me; you preserve me from trouble and surround me with songs of deliverance. Selah
Psalm 119:36 - NCB - Dispose my heart to follow your statutes and to flee selfish gain.
Psalm 37:16-17 - NCB - Preferable is the little that the righteous possess than the great wealth of the wicked. For the power of the wicked will be overcome, but the Lord protects the righteous.
Psalm 44:4 - NCB - It was not their own swords that won them the land, nor did their own arms make them victorious; rather, it was your right hand and your arm and the light of your face, because you loved them.
Acts 1:14 - NCB - All these with one accord were devoting themselves to prayer, together with the women and Mary the mother of Jesus, and his brothers.
John 14:12 - NCB - Amen, amen, I say to you, the one who believes in me will also do the works that I do, and indeed will do even greater ones than these, because I am going to the Father.
John 14:8 - NCB - Philip said to him, "Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us."
James 2:17 - NCB - So also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead.
Hosea 14:3 - NCB - Prepare in advance what you want to say, and return to the Lord. Say to him, "Take away all guilt and give us what is good, so that we may present as offerings the bullocks from our stalls."
Psalm 146:8 - NCB - And opens the eyes of those who cannot see. The Lord lifts up those who are bowed down; the Lord loves the righteous.
Luke 6:36 - NCB - Therefore be merciful, even as your Father is also merciful.
Psalm 103:8 - NCB - The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in kindness.
2 Peter 1:21 - NCB - For no prophecy was ever produced by the will of man, but men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit.
Psalm 139:13-14 - NCB - You created my inmost being; you knit me together in my mothers womb. I praise you because I am wonderfully made; awesome are your works, as I know very well.
1 Timothy 6:7-8 - NCB - For we brought nothing into the world, and we cannot take anything out of the world. But if we have food and clothing, with these we will be content.
John 17:15 - NCB - I am not asking you to take them out of the world, but I do ask you to protect them from the evil one.
Isaiah 41:13 - NCB - For I, the Lord, am your God and I grasp your right hand. It is I who say to you, Do not fear; I will help you.
Mark 12:30 - NCB - And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind and with all your strength.
2 Timothy 4:2 - NCB - Preach the word; be ready in season and out of season; reprove, rebuke, and exhort, with complete patience and teaching.
Matthew 7:3 - NCB - Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye?
1 Timothy 2:9-10 - NCB - Likewise also that women should adorn themselves in respectable apparel, with modesty and self-control, not with braided hair and gold or pearls or costly attire, but with what is proper for women who profess godliness—with good works.
1 Corinthians 3:17 - NCB - If anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy him. For God's temple is holy, and you are that temple.
1 Corinthians 6:12 - NCB - "All things are lawful for me," but not all things are helpful. "All things are lawful for me," but I will not be dominated by anything.
Proverbs 31:9 - NCB - Speak out and pronounce righteous judgments; defend the rights of the wretched and the poor.
Jeremiah 23:24 - NCB - Can someone hide in a secret place so that I cannot see him? Do I not fill heaven and earth?
Psalm 119:7 - NCB - I will praise you in sincerity of heart as I ponder your righteous judgments.
Luke 8:50 - NCB - But Jesus on hearing this answered him, "Do not fear; only believe, and she will be well."
Romans 12:4-5 - NCB - For as in one body we have many members, and the members do not all have the same function, so we, though many, are one body in Christ, and individually members one of another.
Psalm 63:4-5 - NCB - Your kindness is a greater joy than life itself; thus my lips will speak your praise. I will bless you all my life; with uplifted hands I will call on your name.
Romans 12:1 - NCB - I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship.
1 Peter 1:23 - NCB - Since you have been born again, not of perishable seed but of imperishable, through the living and abiding word of God.
Ephesians 6:4 - NCB - Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord.
Proverbs 10:12 - NCB - Hatred stirs up strife, but love overlooks all offenses.
Joshua 23:14 - NCB - And now I am about to go the way of all the earth, and you know in your hearts and souls, all of you, that not one word has failed of all the good things that the Lord your God promised concerning you. All have come to pass for you; not one of them has failed.
Ezekiel 36:23 - NCB - And I will vindicate the holiness of my great name, which has been profaned among the nations, and which you have profaned among them. And the nations will know that I am the Lord, declares the Lord God, when through you I vindicate my holiness before their eyes.
Matthew 5:6 - NCB - Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for justice, for they will have their fill.
Proverbs 16:32 - NCB - It is better to be a patient man rather than a warrior, one who controls his temper rather than one who captures a city.
Acts 4:12 - NCB - And there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved.
Mark 7:20-23 - NCB - And he said, "What comes out of a person is what defiles him. For from within, out of the heart of man, come evil thoughts, sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, coveting, wickedness, deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride, foolishness. All these evil things come from within, and they defile a person."
Matthew 6:12 - NCB - And forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors.
Proverbs 6:20 - NCB - Observe your fathers command, my son, and do not reject your mothers teaching.
Psalm 119:14 - NCB - I rejoice in following your statutes more than I would rejoice in endless riches.
John 13:14 - NCB - So if I, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet, you also should wash one anothers feet.
Proverbs 15:22 - NCB - Plans miscarry when counsel is lacking, but they succeed when there are many counselors.
2 Corinthians 9:10 - NCB - He who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food will supply and multiply your seed for sowing and increase the harvest of your righteousness.
Proverbs 12:25 - NCB - Anxiety in the human heart weighs it down, but a kind word makes it glad.
1 Peter 3:14 - NCB - But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you will be blessed. Have no fear of them, nor be troubled.
Acts 12:5 - NCB - So Peter was kept in prison, but earnest prayer for him was made to God by the church.
John 15:3 - NCB - You have already been cleansed by the word I have spoken to you.
Acts 20:20 - NCB - How I did not shrink from declaring to you anything that was profitable, and teaching you in public and from house to house.
1 Corinthians 3:16 - NCB - Do you not know that you are God's temple and that God's Spirit dwells in you?
John 15:1-2 - NCB - I am the true vine, and my Father is the vinegrower. He removes every branch that does not bear fruit, and every branch that does he prunes to make it bear even more.
Psalm 9:10 - NCB - The Lord is a refuge for the oppressed, a refuge in times of distress.
1 Thessalonians 5:16-18 - NCB - Rejoice always, pray without ceasing, give thanks in all circumstances; for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you.
Hebrews 1:3 - NCB - He is the reflection of Gods glory and the perfect expression of his very being, sustaining all things by his powerful word. Achieving purification from sins, he took his seat at the right hand of the Majesty on high.
1 Corinthians 9:25 - NCB - Every athlete exercises self-control in all things. They do it to receive a perishable wreath, but we an imperishable.
Luke 2:10 - NCB - And the angel said to them, "Fear not, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people."
Colossians 1:27 - NCB - To them God chose to make known how great among the Gentiles are the riches of the glory of this mystery, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory.
1 Peter 4:7 - NCB - The end of all things is at hand; therefore be self-controlled and sober-minded for the sake of your prayers.
2 Corinthians 4:16 - NCB - So we do not lose heart. Though our outer self is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed day by day.
Psalm 90:2 - NCB - Before the mountains were brought forth or the earth and the world came into existence, from everlasting to everlasting you are God.
Psalm 139:7-8 - NCB - Where can I go to hide from your spirit? Where can I flee from your presence? If I ascend to the heavens, you are there; if I take my rest in the netherworld, you are also there.
Joel 2:12 - NCB - Yet even now, says the Lord, return to me with all your heart, with fasting, with weeping, and with mourning.
John 15:8 - NCB - By this is my Father glorified, that you bear much fruit and become my disciples.
Habakkuk 2:4 - NCB - The proud mans heart is not upright, but the righteous man will live because of his faith.
2 Corinthians 5:18 - NCB - All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation.
Romans 15:32 - NCB - So that by God's will I may come to you with joy and be refreshed in your company.
1 Peter 2:21 - NCB - For to this you have been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example, so that you might follow in his steps.
John 8:12 - NCB - Jesus addressed them once again, saying, "I am the light of the world. The one who follows me will never walk in darkness. Rather, he will have the light of life."
Luke 2:4-5 - NCB - And Joseph also went up from Galilee, from the town of Nazareth, to Judea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and lineage of David, to be registered with Mary, his betrothed, who was with child.
Psalm 37:7 - NCB - Wait quietly for the Lord and be patient until he comes. Do not fret over the man who prospers because of his evil schemes.
Luke 4:18 - NCB - The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to bring the good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim release to prisoners and recovery of sight to the blind, to let the oppressed go free.
Romans 8:31 - NCB - What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us?
Matthew 7:7 - NCB - Ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you.
Acts 13:47 - NCB - For so has the Lord commanded us to do, saying, ‘I have made you a light for the Gentiles so that you may bring salvation to the farthest corners of the earth.
Philippians 4:4 - NCB - Rejoice in the Lord always; again I will say, rejoice.
Psalm 42:3 - NCB - My soul thirsts for God, the living God. When shall I come to behold the face of God?
Romans 5:1 - NCB - Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ.
John 15:18 - NCB - If the world hates you, be aware that it hated me before it hated you.
Proverbs 11:9 - NCB - With his mouth the godless man seeks to ruin his neighbor, but knowledge enables the righteous to be delivered.
Malachi 3:20 - NCB - But for you who fear my name the sun of justice will arise with its healing rays. You will emerge leaping like calves released from the stall.
Malachi 3:17 - NCB - They shall be mine, says the Lord of hosts, my own special possession on the day when I act, and I will have compassion on them as a father has compassion on the son who serves him.
Galatians 6:2 - NCB - Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ.
1 John 4:2-3 - NCB - This is how you can recognize the Spirit of God: every spirit that acknowledges that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God, and every spirit that does not acknowledge Jesus is not from God. This is the spirit of the Antichrist, about whose coming you have been told, and that it is already in the world.
2 Kings 20:5 - NCB - Turn back, and say to Hezekiah the leader of my people, Thus says the Lord, the God of David your father: I have heard your prayer; I have seen your tears. Behold, I will heal you. On the third day you shall go up to the house of the Lord.
1 John 4:21 - NCB - This is the commandment we have received from him: whoever loves God must also love his brother.
Philippians 4:8 - NCB - Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, think about these things.
John 3:16 - NCB - For God so loved the world that he gave his only Son, so that everyone who believes in him may not perish but may attain eternal life.
Isaiah 32:15 - NCB - Until a spirit from on high is poured out upon us, and the wilderness becomes an orchard and the fruitful field becomes a forest.
Romans 12:10 - NCB - Love one another with brotherly affection. Outdo one another in showing honor.
John 17:24 - NCB - Father, allow those you have given me to be with me where I am, so that they may behold my glory, which you have bestowed on me because you loved me before the foundation of the world.
1 John 4:16 - NCB - We have come to know and to believe in the love that God has for us. God is love, and whoever abides in love abides in God, and God in him.
1 John 4:10 - NCB - This is what love is: not that we have loved God, but that he loved us and sent his Son as expiation for our sins.
Psalm 27:4 - NCB - There is only one thing I ask of the Lord, just one thing I seek: to dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, so that I may enjoy the beauty of the Lord and gaze on his temple.
Psalm 107:9 - NCB - He has satisfied the thirsty and filled the hungry with good things.
Philippians 3:20 - NCB - But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Corinthians 15:33 - NCB - Do not be deceived: "Bad company ruins good morals."
Romans 16:17 - NCB - I appeal to you, brothers, to watch out for those who cause divisions and create obstacles contrary to the doctrine that you have been taught; avoid them.
Hebrews 10:23 - NCB - Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful.
Psalm 33:22 - NCB - O Lord, let your kindness rest upon us, for we have placed our hope in you.
1 Corinthians 10:23 - NCB - "All things are lawful," but not all things are helpful. "All things are lawful," but not all things build up.
Revelation 3:5 - NCB - The one who conquers will be clothed thus in white garments, and I will never blot his name out of the book of life. I will confess his name before my Father and before his angels.
1 Kings 8:57 - NCB - The Lord our God be with us, as he was with our fathers. May he not leave us or forsake us.
Isaiah 58:6 - NCB - This rather is the type of fast that I wish: to loosen the fetters of injustice, to undo the thongs of the yoke, to set free those who are oppressed and to break every yoke.
James 1:17 - NCB - Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change.
Luke 6:45 - NCB - The good person out of the good treasure of his heart produces good, and the evil person out of his evil treasure produces evil, for out of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks.
Acts 2:1-2 - NCB - When the day of Pentecost arrived, they were all together in one place. And suddenly there came from heaven a sound like a mighty rushing wind, and it filled the entire house where they were sitting.
Micah 7:19 - NCB - You will again show us compassion and wash away our guilt; you will cast all our sins into the depths of the sea.
1 Corinthians 9:27 - NCB - But I discipline my body and keep it under control, lest after preaching to others I myself should be disqualified.
Psalm 57:6 - NCB - Be exalted, O God, above the heavens; let your glory shine over all the earth.
Psalm 54:6 - NCB - Surely God is my helper; the Lord is the one who sustains me.
2 Corinthians 10:17-18 - NCB - "Let the one who boasts, boast in the Lord." For it is not the one who commends himself who is approved, but the one whom the Lord commends.
Amos 9:6 - NCB - He builds his upper chambers in the heavens and establishes his vault of the sky over the earth— the Lord is his name.
Luke 6:27-28 - NCB - But I say to you who hear, Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, bless those who curse you, pray for those who abuse you.
Psalm 108:6 - NCB - Be exalted, O God, above the heavens, and let your glory shine over all the earth.
1 Corinthians 15:1-2 - NCB - Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you are being saved, if you hold fast to the word I preached to you—unless you believed in vain.
Mark 10:29-30 - NCB - Jesus said, "Truly, I say to you, there is no one who has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or lands, for my sake and for the gospel, who will not receive a hundredfold now in this time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and lands, with persecutions, and in the age to come eternal life."
2 Timothy 2:1 - NCB - You then, my child, be strengthened by the grace that is in Christ Jesus.
Psalm 91:4 - NCB - With his feathers he will shelter you, and you will take refuge under his wings; his faithfulness serves as a protective shield.
1 Kings 2:3 - NCB - And keep the charge of the Lord your God, walking in his ways and keeping his statutes, his commandments, his rules, and his testimonies, as it is written in the Law of Moses, that you may prosper in all that you do and wherever you turn.
Proverbs 10:29 - NCB - The way of the Lord is a stronghold for the upright, but destruction for evildoers.
Acts 5:3-4 - NCB - But Peter said, "Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and to keep back for yourself part of the proceeds of the land? While it remained unsold, did it not remain your own? And after it was sold, was it not at your disposal? Why is it that you have contrived this deed in your heart? You have not lied to man but to God."
John 14:27 - NCB - Peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you. Not as the world gives do I give it to you. Do not let your hearts be troubled; be not afraid.
Proverbs 18:8 - NCB - The whispers of a gossiper are tasty morsels that corrode ones inner being.
Isaiah 55:9 - NCB - As the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts above your thoughts.
Deuteronomy 6:24 - NCB - And the Lord commanded us to do all these statutes, to fear the Lord our God, for our good always, that he might preserve us alive, as we are this day.
James 1:26 - NCB - If anyone thinks he is religious and does not bridle his tongue but deceives his heart, this person's religion is worthless.
1 Thessalonians 5:11 - NCB - Therefore encourage one another and build one another up, just as you are doing.
Proverbs 23:4 - NCB - Do not wear yourself out in the pursuit of wealth, and cease even to think about it.
Romans 12:2 - NCB - Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect.
Matthew 5:44 - NCB - But I say to you, Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you.
Psalm 118:25-26 - NCB - O Lord, grant us salvation. O Lord, grant us success. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. We bless you from the house of the Lord.
Ephesians 4:2 - NCB - With all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love.
Joshua 24:23 - NCB - He said, "Then put away the foreign gods that are among you, and incline your heart to the Lord, the God of Israel."
Colossians 3:5 - NCB - Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry.
Luke 5:32 - NCB - I have not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance.
1 John 2:16 - NCB - For everything that is in the world— the concupiscence of the flesh, the concupiscence of the eyes, and the pride of life— comes not from the Father but from the world.
Psalm 20:8 - NCB - Some trust in chariots, and some in horses, but we trust in the name of the Lord, our God.
John 15:12 - NCB - This is my commandment: love one another as I have loved you.
Isaiah 40:28 - NCB - Do you not know? Have you not heard? The Lord is the eternal God, the Creator of the earths farthest boundaries. He does not faint or grow weary; his understanding cannot be scrutinized.
Luke 10:27 - NCB - And he answered, "You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your strength and with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself."
1 Thessalonians 4:14 - NCB - For since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so, through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep.
John 14:13 - NCB - Whatever you ask in my name I will do, so that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
Genesis 1:29 - NCB - And God said, "Behold, I have given you every plant yielding seed that is on the face of all the earth, and every tree with seed in its fruit. You shall have them for food."
Proverbs 10:19 - NCB - Where many words are spoken, sin is not absent, but whoever restrains his tongue is prudent.
Proverbs 4:24 - NCB - Turn away from the mouth that deceives and keep your distance from lips that mislead.
Luke 10:9 - NCB - Heal the sick in it and say to them, ‘The kingdom of God has come near to you.
Matthew 24:42 - NCB - Therefore, stay awake, for you do not know on what day your Lord is coming.
1 Timothy 1:17 - NCB - To the King of the ages, immortal, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen.
Deuteronomy 28:1 - NCB - And if you faithfully obey the voice of the Lord your God, being careful to do all his commandments that I command you today, the Lord your God will set you high above all the nations of the earth.
Psalm 62:6 - NCB - In God alone be at rest, O my soul; it is from him that my hope comes.
Mark 13:11 - NCB - And when they bring you to trial and deliver you over, do not be anxious beforehand what you are to say, but say whatever is given you in that hour, for it is not you who speak, but the Holy Spirit.
Philippians 4:19 - NCB - And my God will supply every need of yours according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
Mark 8:34 - NCB - And calling the crowd to him with his disciples, he said to them, "If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me."
Isaiah 12:5 - NCB - Sing praise to the Lord for his mighty deeds; let this be known throughout the entire world.
1 John 5:12 - NCB - Whoever possesses the Son possesses life; whoever does not possess the Son of God does not possess life.
John 13:16 - NCB - Amen, amen, I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent him.
2 Corinthians 5:7 - NCB - For we walk by faith, not by sight.
Ezekiel 18:30b - NCB - Repent and turn from all your transgressions, lest iniquity be your ruin.
2 Corinthians 1:3-4 - NCB - Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our affliction, so that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction, with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God.
2 Peter 1:4 - NCB - By which he has granted to us his precious and very great promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of sinful desire.
Romans 8:25 - NCB - But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience.
Proverbs 13:10 - NCB - An ignorant man causes strife by his insolence, but wisdom is found with those who take advice.
Romans 8:19 - NCB - For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God.
Luke 1:37 - NCB - For nothing will be impossible with God.
Psalm 10:12 - NCB - Arise, O Lord! Lift up your hand, O God! Do not forget the afflicted.
1 Peter 5:7 - NCB - Casting all your anxieties on him, because he cares for you.
2 Corinthians 7:10 - NCB - For godly grief produces a repentance that leads to salvation without regret, whereas worldly grief produces death.
Proverbs 15:16 - NCB - It is better to have a little and fear the Lord than to possess immense wealth and suffer anguish.
Isaiah 55:11 - NCB - So shall my word be that issues forth from my mouth. It will not return to me unfulfilled, but it will accomplish my purpose and achieve what I sent it forth to do.
Daniel 4:34 - NCB - Therefore, now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and exalt and glorify the King of heaven. For all of his works are right, and all of his ways are just. Also, he is able to humble all those who follow the path of pride.
Acts 11:15 - NCB - As I began to speak, the Holy Spirit fell on them just as on us at the beginning.
Matthew 22:39 - NCB - And a second is like it: You shall love your neighbor as yourself.
Matthew 4:4 - NCB - Jesus answered, "As it is written: ‘Man does not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes forth from the mouth of God. "
Ecclesiastes 7:14 - NCB - When things are going well, be grateful for your blessings, and in times of adversity consider this: God has made both of them, so that we cannot predict with confidence what the future holds.
Proverbs 17:28 - NCB - Even a fool who keeps silent is considered wise; if he closes his lips, he is regarded as intelligent.
Galatians 3:26-27 - NCB - For in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God, through faith. For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ.
1 Timothy 6:9 - NCB - But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation, into a snare, into many senseless and harmful desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction.
Lamentations 3:22-23 - NCB - The love of the Lord is never exhausted, nor do his deeds of mercy ever come to an end. They are renewed every morning; his faithfulness never ceases.
Job 37:23 - NCB - But the Almighty we cannot find; he is unequaled in power and judgment, and in his righteousness he will not violate justice.
Hebrews 7:25 - NCB - Consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them.
Romans 5:10 - NCB - For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more, now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life.
Deuteronomy 24:5 - NCB - When a man is newly married, he shall not go out with the army or be liable for any other public duty. He shall be free at home one year to be happy with his wife whom he has taken.
Psalm 42:9 - NCB - During the day the Lord grants his kindness, and at night his praise is with me, a prayer to the living God.
Ephesians 2:13 - NCB - But now in Christ Jesus you who once were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ.
Matthew 6:33 - NCB - But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you.
Psalm 18:32 - NCB - Indeed, who is God except the Lord? Who is the Rock besides our God?
Psalm 121:7-8 - NCB - The Lord will protect you against all evil; he will watch over your life. The Lord will watch over your coming and your going both now and forevermore.
1 Timothy 5:3 - NCB - Honor widows who are truly widows.
James 5:12 - NCB - But above all, my brothers, do not swear, either by heaven or by earth or by any other oath, but let your "yes" be yes and your "no" be no, so that you may not fall under condemnation.
Genesis 9:3-4 - NCB - Every moving thing that lives shall be food for you. And as I gave you the green plants, I give you everything. But you shall not eat flesh with its life, that is, its blood.
Deuteronomy 8:5 - NCB - Know then in your heart that, as a man disciplines his son, the Lord your God disciplines you.
1 Peter 5:8 - NCB - Be sober-minded; be watchful. Your adversary the devil prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour.
John 6:62 - NCB - What then if you were to behold the Son of Man ascend to where he was before?
John 15:10 - NCB - If you keep my commandments, you will remain in my love, just as I have kept my Fathers commandments and remain in his love.
Job 29:12-13 - NCB - Because I delivered the poor who appealed for help and the orphan who had no one to protect him. The blessing of the wretched was given to me, and I caused the widows heart to sing for joy.
Matthew 1:18 - NCB - Now the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit.
Proverbs 1:23 - NCB - If you would seriously consider my reproof, I would pour out my thoughts to you and make my precepts known to you.
1 Corinthians 13:4-5 - NCB - Love is patient; love is charitable. Love is not envious; it does not have an inflated opinion of itself; it is not filled with its own importance. Love is never rude; it does not seek its own advantage. It is not prone to anger; neither does it brood over setbacks.
Romans 15:13 - NCB - May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, so that by the power of the Holy Spirit you may abound in hope.
Mark 14:36 - NCB - Abba, Father, all things are possible for you. Remove this cup from me. Yet not what I will, but what you will.
Proverbs 13:11 - NCB - Wealth hastily acquired will dwindle away, but when amassed little by little, it will increase.
Psalm 67:8 - NCB - May God continue to bless us and be revered to the ends of the earth.
Psalm 111:10 - NCB - The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom; those who are guided by it will grow in understanding. His praise will last forever.
Daniel 12:10 - NCB - Many shall purify themselves and make themselves white and be refined, but the wicked shall act wickedly. And none of the wicked shall understand, but those who are wise shall understand.
Hebrews 12:14 - NCB - Strive for peace with everyone, and for the holiness without which no one will see the Lord.
1 Corinthians 7:3-4 - NCB - The husband should give to his wife her conjugal rights, and likewise the wife to her husband. For the wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does. Likewise the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does.
2 Timothy 1:9 - NCB - Who saved us and called us to a holy calling, not because of our works but because of his own purpose and grace, which he gave us in Christ Jesus before the ages began.
Joshua 22:5 - NCB - Only be very careful to observe the commandment and the law that Moses the servant of the Lord commanded you, to love the Lord your God, and to walk in all his ways and to keep his commandments and to cling to him and to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul.
John 14:7 - NCB - If you know me, then you will know my Father also. From now on you do know him. You have seen him.
Isaiah 57:15 - NCB - For thus says the One who is high and exalted, who lives eternally and whose name is holy: I dwell in a high and holy place but I am with the contrite and the humble, to revive the spirit of the humble and to revive the heart of the contrite.
Hebrews 9:28 - NCB - So Christ, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time, not to deal with sin but to save those who are eagerly waiting for him.
1 Corinthians 15:3-4 - NCB - For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the Scriptures.
Matthew 26:41 - NCB - Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.
Matthew 17:5 - NCB - He was still speaking when, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and a voice from the cloud said, "This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased; listen to him."
Psalm 24:10 - NCB - Who is this King of glory? The Lord of hosts: he is the King of glory. Selah
Psalm 32:8 - NCB - I will instruct you and guide you in the way you should go; I will counsel you and keep my eyes upon you.
Matthew 6:13 - NCB - And do not lead us into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one.
Acts 1:10-11 - NCB - And while they were gazing into heaven as he went, behold, two men stood by them in white robes, and said, "Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into heaven? This Jesus, who was taken up from you into heaven, will come in the same way as you saw him go into heaven."
Psalm 18:2-3 - NCB - I love you, O Lord, my strength, O Lord, my rock, my fortress, my deliverer. My God is my rock in whom I take refuge, my shield and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold.
Philippians 4:11 - NCB - Not that I am speaking of being in need, for I have learned in whatever situation I am to be content.
Proverbs 11:3 - NCB - The upright are guarded by their integrity; the treacherous are destroyed by their own duplicity.
Psalm 112:6 - NCB - He will never be swayed; the righteous man will be remembered forever.
Psalm 27:1 - NCB - The Lord is my light and my salvation; whom should I fear? The Lord is the stronghold of my life; of whom should I be afraid?
1 Peter 3:15 - NCB - Rather, revere Christ as Lord in your hearts. Always be prepared to offer an explanation to anyone who asks you to justify the hope that is in you. However, do so with gentleness and respect.
Matthew 6:2 - NCB - Thus, when you give to the needy, sound no trumpet before you, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may be praised by others. Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward.
1 John 2:17 - NCB - And the world with all its enticements is passing away, but whoever does the will of God abides forever.
Psalm 37:4 - NCB - Take delight in the Lord, and he will grant you what your heart desires.
2 Corinthians 6:14 - NCB - Do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers. For what partnership has righteousness with lawlessness? Or what fellowship has light with darkness?
Matthew 16:19 - NCB - I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.
Psalm 143:8 - NCB - At dawn let me experience your kindness, for in you I place my trust. Show me the path I must walk, for to you I lift up my soul.
1 Corinthians 13:6-7 - NCB - Love does not rejoice over wrongdoing but rejoices in the truth. Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things.
1 Thessalonians 4:16-17 - NCB - For the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command, with the voice of an archangel, and with the sound of the trumpet of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so we will always be with the Lord.
Isaiah 1:16 - NCB - Wash yourselves and become clean; remove your evil deeds far from my sight. Cease to do evil.
Isaiah 60:1 - NCB - Arise and shine forth, for your light has come and the glory of the Lord has dawned upon you.
Romans 14:5 - NCB - One person esteems one day as better than another, while another esteems all days alike. Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind.
Psalm 66:17 - NCB - I lifted up my voice in prayer to him; his praise was on my tongue.
Psalm 39:13 - NCB - Hear my prayer, O Lord; do not be deaf to my cry or ignore my weeping. For I am a wayfarer before you, a nomad like all my ancestors.
Luke 12:48 - NCB - But the one who did not know, and did what deserved a beating, will receive a light beating. Everyone to whom much was given, of him much will be required, and from him to whom they entrusted much, they will demand the more.
Luke 23:46 - NCB - Then Jesus, calling out with a loud voice, said, "Father, into your hands I commit my spirit!" And having said this he breathed his last.
Ezekiel 18:32 - NCB - For I have no pleasure in the death of anyone, declares the Lord God; so turn, and live.
Genesis 2:18 - NCB - Then the Lord God said, "It is not good that the man should be alone; I will make him a helper fit for him."
Zechariah 1:3b - NCB - Return to me, says the Lord of hosts, and I will return to you, says the Lord of hosts.
Job 19:25 - NCB - But I know that my Redeemer lives, and that at the end he will stand upon the dust.
Psalm 25:4 - NCB - Make your ways known to me, O Lord; teach me your paths.
Numbers 15:39 - NCB - And it shall be a tassel for you to look at and remember all the commandments of the Lord, to do them, not to follow after your own heart and your own eyes, which you are inclined to whore after.
1 John 1:5 - NCB - This is the message that we have heard from him and that we declare to you: God is light, and there is no darkness at all in him.
Luke 6:38 - NCB - Give, and it will be given to you. Good measure, pressed down, shaken together, running over, will be put into your lap. For with the measure you use it will be measured back to you.
Ezekiel 36:27 - NCB - And I will put my Spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules.
Galatians 5:17 - NCB - For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do.
Psalm 120:2 - NCB - Deliver me, O Lord, from lying lips and from deceitful tongues.
2 Corinthians 9:11 - NCB - You will be enriched in every way to be generous in every way, which through us will produce thanksgiving to God.
Psalm 128:1 - NCB - Blessed are all those who fear the Lord and walk in his ways.
Hebrews 4:12 - NCB - For the word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and of spirit, of joints and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart.
1 Timothy 4:12 - NCB - Let no one despise you for your youth, but set the believers an example in speech, in conduct, in love, in faith, in purity.
Revelation 1:7 - NCB - Behold, he is coming with the clouds; every eye will see him, even those who pierced him. All the peoples of the earth will mourn him. So shall it be. Amen.
James 4:4 - NCB - You adulterous people! Do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Therefore whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God.
Ephesians 5:1 - NCB - Therefore be imitators of God, as beloved children.
Luke 16:23-24 - NCB - And being in torments in Hades, he lifted up his eyes and saw Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom. "Then he cried and said, ‘Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus that he may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue; for I am tormented in this flame. "
Romans 14:8 - NCB - For if we live, we live to the Lord, and if we die, we die to the Lord. So then, whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lord's.
Zechariah 7:9-10 - NCB - Thus says the Lord of hosts: ‘Execute true justice, Show mercy and compassion Everyone to his brother. Do not oppress the widow or the fatherless, The alien or the poor. Let none of you plan evil in his heart Against his brother.
Deuteronomy 4:39 - NCB - Know therefore today, and lay it to your heart, that the Lord is God in heaven above and on the earth beneath; there is no other.
Lamentations 3:24 - NCB - The Lord is my portion, I say to myself; therefore, I will place my hope in him.
1 John 3:2-3 - NCB - Beloved, we are Gods children now. What we shall be has not yet been revealed. However, we do know that when he appears we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he really is. Everyone who has this hope in him keeps himself pure, just as he is pure.
Proverbs 18:6 - NCB - The lips of a fool cause strife, and his mouth provokes a flogging.
James 1:5 - NCB - If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God, who gives generously to all without reproach, and it will be given him.
1 Corinthians 6:18 - NCB - Flee from sexual immorality. Every other sin a person commits is outside the body, but the sexually immoral person sins against his own body.
Romans 14:1 - NCB - As for the one who is weak in faith, welcome him, but not to quarrel over opinions.
Matthew 19:14 - NCB - But Jesus said, "Let the little children come to me and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of heaven."
Proverbs 23:15 - NCB - My son, if your heart is wise, then my heart will be glad.
Acts 10:34-35 - NCB - So Peter opened his mouth and said: "Truly I understand that God shows no partiality, but in every nation anyone who fears him and does what is right is acceptable to him."
Acts 13:38-39 - NCB - Let it be known to you therefore, brothers, that through this man forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you, and by him everyone who believes is freed from everything from which you could not be freed by the law of Moses.
Proverbs 4:5 - NCB - Acquire wisdom and gain understanding; never forget or turn aside from my words.
Psalm 103:12 - NCB - As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us.
Acts 3:19 - NCB - Repent therefore, and turn back, that your sins may be blotted out.
2 Samuel 22:31 - NCB - The way of God is blameless; the Lords promise has proved true. He is a shield to all who take refuge in him.
1 John 1:9 - NCB - However, if we confess our sins, he who is faithful and just will forgive our sins and cleanse us from all wrongdoing.
Ephesians 5:33 - NCB - However, let each one of you love his wife as himself, and let the wife see that she respects her husband.
Psalm 90:17 - NCB - May the favor of the Lord, our God, rest upon us. And may the work of our hands prosper— indeed, may the work of our hands prosper.
Proverbs 30:8 - NCB - Keep falsehood and lying far from me; give me neither poverty nor riches, but simply provide me with the food that I need.
Luke 15:10 - NCB - Just so, I tell you, there is joy before the angels of God over one sinner who repents.
Titus 2:11-12 - NCB - For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people, training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions, and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age.
Luke 1:35 - NCB - And the angel answered her, "The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you; therefore the child to be born will be called holy—the Son of God."
Luke 3:21-22 - NCB - Now when all the people were baptized, and when Jesus also had been baptized and was praying, the heavens were opened, and the Holy Spirit descended on him in bodily form, like a dove; and a voice came from heaven, "You are my beloved Son; with you I am well pleased."
Genesis 1:1-2 - NCB - In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. The earth was without form and void, and darkness was over the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters.
Romans 7:7 - NCB - What then shall we say? That the law is sin? By no means! Yet if it had not been for the law, I would not have known sin. For I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said, "You shall not covet."
Galatians 5:22-23 - NCB - But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control; against such things there is no law.
Colossians 3:2 - NCB - Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth.
Proverbs 4:20-21 - NCB - My son, concentrate attentively on my words; pay heed to the instructions I pass on to you. Do not let them slip from your mind; keep them forever in your heart.
Matthew 21:9 - NCB - The crowds that preceded him and those that followed kept shouting: "Hosanna to the Son of David! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord! Hosanna in the highest!"
Psalm 27:14 - NCB - Place your hope in the Lord: be strong and courageous in your heart, and place your hope in the Lord.
Proverbs 25:28 - NCB - Like a city that has been breached and made defenseless is the man devoid of self-control.
Song of songs 4:7 - NCB - You are all-beautiful, my love, without the slightest blemish.
John 3:3 - NCB - Jesus replied, "Amen, amen, I say to you, no one can see the kingdom of God without being born from above."
1 John 4:18 - NCB - In love there is no fear; indeed, perfect love casts out fear, because fear has to do with punishment, and whoever fears has not yet achieved perfection in love.
Deuteronomy 4:2 - NCB - You shall not add to the word that I command you, nor take from it, that you may keep the commandments of the Lord your God that I command you.
John 1:12 - NCB - However, to those who did accept him and who believed in his name he granted the power to become children of God.
Philippians 4:20 - NCB - To our God and Father be glory forever and ever. Amen.
John 15:13 - NCB - No one can have greater love than to lay down his life for his friends.
Proverbs 21:21 - NCB - Whoever pursues righteousness and kindness will find life and honor too.
Romans 12:18 - NCB - If possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all.
Revelation 22:12 - NCB - Behold, I am coming soon, bringing my recompense with me, to repay each one for what he has done.
Hebrews 11:1 - NCB - Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen.
Psalm 27:13 - NCB - I am confident that I will behold the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living.
Psalm 18:7 - NCB - In my anguish I cried out to the Lord and called to my God for help. From his temple he heard my voice, and my cry to him reached his ears.
Psalm 124:8 - NCB - Our help is in the name of the Lord, the Maker of heaven and earth.
Galatians 5:1 - NCB - For freedom Christ has set us free; stand firm therefore, and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery.
Matthew 24:44 - NCB - Therefore you also must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect.
Ecclesiastes 11:10 - NCB - Banish grief from your heart and ignore the sufferings of your body, for youth and the prime of life are fleeting.
1 Corinthians 2:9 - NCB - For as it is written, "Eye has not seen, ear has not heard, nor has the human heart imagined what God has prepared for those who love him."
1 John 4:15 - NCB - God abides in anyone who acknowledges that Jesus is the Son of God, and that person abides in God.
1 Samuel 2:7 - NCB - The Lord makes poor and makes rich, he humbles and he also exalts.
2 Peter 3:8 - NCB - But do not overlook this one fact, beloved, that with the Lord one day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day.
Leviticus 23:3 - NCB - Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day is a Sabbath of solemn rest, a holy convocation. You shall do no work. It is a Sabbath to the Lord in all your dwelling places.
Romans 6:15 - NCB - What then? Are we to sin because we are not under law but under grace? By no means!
Psalm 121:1-2 - NCB - I lift up my eyes to the mountains; from where will I receive help? My help comes from the Lord, the Maker of heaven and earth.
Revelation 21:3-4 - NCB - And I heard a loud voice proclaim from the throne: "Behold, Gods dwelling is with mankind; he will dwell with them. They will be his people, and he will be their God, God-with-them. He will wipe every tear from their eyes, and there will no longer be death. Neither will there be any mourning or crying or pain, for the old order has passed away."
Hebrews 4:16 - NCB - Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need.
Ecclesiastes 5:3 - NCB - When you make a vow to God, do not delay to pay it; For He has no pleasure in fools. Pay what you have vowed.
1 Corinthians 15:58 - NCB - Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that in the Lord your labor is not in vain.
Luke 6:30 - NCB - Give to everyone who begs from you, and from one who takes away your goods do not demand them back.
Deuteronomy 5:29 - NCB - Oh that they had such a heart as this always, to fear me and to keep all my commandments, that it might go well with them and with their descendants forever!
Matthew 10:28 - NCB - And do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell.
2 Corinthians 5:19 - NCB - That is, in Christ God was reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and entrusting to us the message of reconciliation.
Isaiah 26:8 - NCB - As we proceed in the path of your judgments, we wait for you, O Lord; your name and your renown are all that our heart desires.
Psalm 9:11 - NCB - Those who revere your name place their trust in you, for you never abandon those who seek you, O Lord.
1 John 4:20 - NCB - If someone says, "I love God," but at the same time hates his brother, he is a liar. For whoever does not love the brother whom he has seen cannot love God whom he has not seen.
Ecclesiastes 7:10 - NCB - Do not assert that the past was better than the present, for such a statement is not a sign of wisdom.
John 3:21 - NCB - However, whoever lives by the truth comes to the light so that it may be clearly seen that his deeds have been done in God.
Psalm 34:7 - NCB - In my anguish I cried out; the Lord heard my plea, and I was saved from all my troubles.
Romans 8:32 - NCB - He who did not spare his own Son but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things?
Proverbs 10:20 - NCB - The tongue of the just man is like pure silver; the heart of the wicked is without worth.
Romans 5:5 - NCB - And hope does not put us to shame, because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us.
Matthew 5:18 - NCB - For truly, I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the Law until all is accomplished.
Psalm 103:13 - NCB - As a father has compassion for his children, so the Lord has compassion for those who fear him.
1 Corinthians 6:19-20 - NCB - Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God? You are not your own, for you were bought with a price. So glorify God in your body.
Philippians 1:6 - NCB - And I am sure of this, that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ.
Genesis 9:13 - NCB - I have set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and the earth.
Matthew 10:29-31 - NCB - Are not two sparrows sold for a penny? And not one of them will fall to the ground apart from your Father. But even the hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear not, therefore; you are of more value than many sparrows.
Isaiah 53:4 - NCB - Although it was our afflictions that he bore, our sufferings that he endured, we thought of him as stricken, as struck down by God and afflicted.
Deuteronomy 15:6 - NCB - For the Lord your God will bless you, as he promised you, and you shall lend to many nations, but you shall not borrow, and you shall rule over many nations, but they shall not rule over you.
Leviticus 5:17 - NCB - If anyone sins, doing any of the things that by the Lord's commandments ought not to be done, though he did not know it, then realizes his guilt, he shall bear his iniquity.
1 Timothy 4:8 - NCB - For while bodily training is of some value, godliness is of value in every way, as it holds promise for the present life and also for the life to come.
Zephaniah 3:17 - NCB - The Lord, your God, is in your midst, a warrior and a savior. He will rejoice over you with gladness and renew you through his love. He will exult over you with shouts of joy.
Ephesians 5:2 - NCB - And walk in love, as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God.
Deuteronomy 6:25 - NCB - And it will be righteousness for us, if we are careful to do all this commandment before the Lord our God, as he has commanded us.
Psalm 19:8 - NCB - The law of the Lord is perfect, affording refreshment to the soul. The decree of the Lord is worthy of trust, imparting wisdom to the simple.
2 Timothy 4:7-8 - NCB - I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will award to me on that day, and not only to me but also to all who have loved his appearing.
1 John 5:11 - NCB - And this is the testimony: God gave us eternal life, and this life is in his Son.
Proverbs 20:3 - NCB - It is honorable to avoid strife, but every fool is quarrelsome.
Psalm 51:19 - NCB - My sacrifice, O God, is a broken spirit; a contrite and humble heart, O God, you will not spurn.
Zechariah 9:9 - NCB - Rejoice with all your heart, O daughter Zion. Shout for joy, O daughter Jerusalem. See, your king is coming to you, triumphant and victorious, humble and riding on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a donkey.
Matthew 12:32 - NCB - And whoever speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven, either in this age or in the age to come.
Isaiah 46:4 - NCB - Even when you reach old age I will still be the same. Even when your hair is gray, I will still carry you. I have made you and I will uphold you; I will carry you and save you.
Romans 14:13 - NCB - Therefore let us not pass judgment on one another any longer, but rather decide never to put a stumbling block or hindrance in the way of a brother.
John 14:21 - NCB - Anyone who has received my commandments and observes them is the one who loves me. And whoever loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and reveal myself to him.
Matthew 12:31 - NCB - Therefore I tell you, every sin and blasphemy will be forgiven people, but the blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven.
Matthew 28:19-20 - NCB - Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.
Psalm 34:16 - NCB - The eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and his ears are open to their cry.
Psalm 71:8 - NCB - My mouth is filled with your praises as I relate your glory all day long.
Proverbs 2:7 - NCB - He reserves his wisdom for the upright and is a shield to those who lead blameless lives.
Acts 4:31 - NCB - And when they had prayed, the place in which they were gathered together was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and continued to speak the word of God with boldness.
Matthew 9:12 - NCB - But when he heard it, he said, "Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick."
Luke 2:20 - NCB - And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all they had heard and seen, as it had been told them.
Psalm 119:130 - NCB - The explanation of your words gives light and imparts understanding to the simple.
Psalm 33:4 - NCB - For the word of the Lord is true, and he is faithful in everything he does.
Philippians 4:13 - NCB - I can do all things through him who strengthens me.
Philippians 2:14-16a - NCB - Do all things without grumbling or disputing, that you may be blameless and innocent, children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation, among whom you shine as lights in the world, holding fast to the word of life.
Galatians 1:10 - NCB - For am I now seeking the approval of man, or of God? Or am I trying to please man? If I were still trying to please man, I would not be a servant of Christ.
1 Peter 1:13 - NCB - Therefore, preparing your minds for action, and being sober-minded, set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ.
Mark 10:27 - NCB - Jesus looked at them and said, "With man it is impossible, but not with God. For all things are possible with God."
Matthew 18:21-22 - NCB - Then Peter came to Him and said, "Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? Up to seven times?" Jesus said to him, "I do not say to you, up to seven times, but up to seventy times seven."
James 1:3 - NCB - For you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness.
James 1:18 - NCB - Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth, that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures.
Proverbs 22:4 - NCB - The reward of humility and fear of the Lord is wealth, honor, and life.
1 Timothy 2:5 - NCB - For there is one God, and there is one mediator between God and man, Christ Jesus, himself a man.
Ephesians 5:31 - NCB - For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh.
Matthew 5:9 - NCB - Blessed are the peacemakers, for they will be called children of God.
2 Thessalonians 3:3 - NCB - But the Lord is faithful. He will establish you and guard you against the evil one.
Luke 2:11 - NCB - For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, who is Christ the Lord.
John 3:30 - NCB - He must increase; I must decrease.
Psalm 37:23 - NCB - The Lord makes a mans steps secure when he approves of his conduct.
John 1:14 - NCB - And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us. And we saw his glory, the glory as of the Fathers only Son, full of grace and truth.
Psalm 20:5 - NCB - May he give you your hearts desire and grant you success in all your plans.
Psalm 86:5 - NCB - O Lord, you are kind and forgiving, filled with kindness for all who cry to you.
Colossians 1:13-14 - NCB - He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins.
Luke 11:13 - NCB - If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will the heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him!
Matthew 6:6 - NCB - But when you pray, go into your room and shut the door and pray to your Father who is in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you.
Philippians 4:23 - NCB - The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
Matthew 6:19-20 - NCB - Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys and where thieves do not break in and steal.
1 Peter 3:7 - NCB - Likewise, husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way, showing honor to the woman as the weaker vessel, since they are heirs with you of the grace of life, so that your prayers may not be hindered.
1 Peter 3:10-11 - NCB - For: "If anyone wishes to love life and to experience good days, he must restrain his tongue from evil and his lips from deceitful speech. He must turn away from evil and do good, seek peace and pursue it."
Titus 2:9-10 - NCB - Bondservants are to be submissive to their own masters in everything; they are to be well-pleasing, not argumentative, not pilfering, but showing all good faith, so that in everything they may adorn the doctrine of God our Savior.
Deuteronomy 5:11 - NCB - You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain.
Galatians 5:25 - NCB - If we live by the Spirit, let us also keep in step with the Spirit.
Isaiah 53:5 - NCB - But he was pierced for our offenses and crushed for our iniquity; the punishment that made us whole fell upon him, and by his bruises we have been healed.
John 14:15 - NCB - If you love me, you will keep my commandments.
Luke 12:22b-23 - NCB - Do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat, nor about your body, what you will put on. For life is more than food, and the body more than clothing.
Colossians 3:9-10 - NCB - Do not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its practices and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge after the image of its creator.
Romans 12:12 - NCB - Rejoice in hope, be patient in tribulation, be constant in prayer.
Romans 8:14 - NCB - For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God.
Psalm 119:9 - NCB - How can a young man lead a spotless life? By living according to your word.
Proverbs 4:27 - NCB - Do not swerve either to the right or to the left; keep your foot far from evil.
Hebrews 4:9-10 - NCB - So then, there remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God, for whoever has entered God's rest has also rested from his works as God did from his.
Deuteronomy 6:17 - NCB - You shall diligently keep the commandments of the Lord your God, and his testimonies and his statutes, which he has commanded you.
Deuteronomy 18:21-22 - NCB - And if you say in your heart, ‘How may we know the word that the Lord has not spoken?— when a prophet speaks in the name of the Lord, if the word does not come to pass or come true, that is a word that the Lord has not spoken; the prophet has spoken it presumptuously. You need not be afraid of him.
1 Peter 2:2 - NCB - Like newborn infants, long for the pure spiritual milk, that by it you may grow up into salvation.
Matthew 7:21 - NCB - Not everyone who says to me, ‘Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven.
Proverbs 3:7-8 - NCB - Do not pride yourself on your own wisdom; fear the Lord and turn your back on evil. This will provide healing for your flesh and restore strength to your body.
1 Peter 5:10 - NCB - And after you have suffered a little while, the God of all grace, who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will himself restore, confirm, strengthen, and establish you.
1 John 5:5 - NCB - Who indeed conquers the world except the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God?
Hebrews 12:11 - NCB - For the moment all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant, but later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it.
Leviticus 26:2 - NCB - You shall keep My Sabbaths and reverence My sanctuary: I am the Lord.
Job 23:12 - NCB - I have not strayed from the commandments of his lips; I have treasured in my heart the words of his mouth.
Romans 15:2 - NCB - Let each of us please his neighbor for his good, to build him up.
Psalm 33:5 - NCB - The Lord loves righteousness and justice; the earth is filled with his kindness.
Isaiah 61:10 - NCB - I rejoice in the Lord with all my heart; my soul exults in my God. For he has clothed me in garments of salvation and wrapped me in a robe of saving justice, like a bridegroom adorned with a garland or a bride bedecked with her jewels.
Proverbs 4:11 - NCB - I have instructed you in the ways of wisdom and led you along the paths of righteousness.
Psalm 59:17 - NCB - But I will sing of your strength; when morning dawns, I will proclaim your kindness. For you have been my fortress, my refuge in times of trouble.
John 14:16 - NCB - And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Advocate to be with you forever.
Ephesians 4:15 - NCB - Rather, speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way into him who is the head, into Christ.
Psalm 86:11 - NCB - Teach me your ways, O Lord, so that I may walk in your truth; let me worship your name with an undivided heart.
Philippians 3:10 - NCB - That I may know him and the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like him in his death.
1 Timothy 6:17 - NCB - As for the rich in this present age, charge them not to be haughty, nor to set their hopes on the uncertainty of riches, but on God, who richly provides us with everything to enjoy.
Romans 1:17 - NCB - For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, "The righteous shall live by faith."
1 Thessalonians 5:15 - NCB - See that no one repays anyone evil for evil, but always seek to do good to one another and to everyone.
Luke 9:24 - NCB - For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will save it.
Luke 6:37 - NCB - Dont judge, and you wont be judged. Dont condemn, and you wont be condemned. Set free, and you will be set free.
Ephesians 6:11 - NCB - Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil.
Isaiah 40:8 - NCB - The grass may wither and the flower may fade, but the word of our God will endure forever.
1 Corinthians 3:18 - NCB - Let no one deceive himself. If anyone among you thinks that he is wise in this age, let him become a fool that he may become wise.
Psalm 139:23-24 - NCB - Examine me, O God, and know my heart; test me and understand my thoughts. See if I follow an evil way, and guide me on the way to eternity.
Titus 2:14 - NCB - Who gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness and to purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for good works.
Philippians 1:29 - NCB - For it has been granted to you that for the sake of Christ you should not only believe in him but also suffer for his sake.
1 Timothy 6:12 - NCB - Fight the good fight of the faith. Take hold of the eternal life to which you were called and about which you made the good confession in the presence of many witnesses.
Matthew 1:22-23 - NCB - All this took place in order to fulfill what the Lord had announced through the prophet: "Behold, the virgin shall conceive and give birth to a son, and they shall name him Emmanuel," a name that means "God is with us."
Ephesians 1:3 - NCB - Blessed be the God, and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavens.
1 Peter 1:18-19 - NCB - Knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or spot.
Matthew 11:28 - NCB - Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.
1 Corinthians 1:18 - NCB - For the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved it is the power of God.
2 Peter 2:9 - NCB - Then the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials, and to keep the unrighteous under punishment until the day of judgment.
John 10:10 - NCB - A thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I have come that they may have life, and have it in abundance.
1 Samuel 16:7 - NCB - But the Lord said to Samuel, "Do not look on his appearance or on the height of his stature, because I have rejected him. For the Lord sees not as man sees: man looks on the outward appearance, but the Lord looks on the heart."
Isaiah 55:7 - NCB - Let the wicked abandon their ways and those who are evil their thoughts. Let them return to the Lord so that he may have mercy upon them; and to our God, for he is rich in forgiveness.
Romans 8:26 - NCB - Likewise the Spirit helps us in our weakness. For we do not know what to pray for as we ought, but the Spirit himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words.
1 John 2:15 - NCB - Do not love the world or what is in the world. If anyone does love the world, the love of the Father is not in him.
Psalm 103:17-18 - NCB - But from everlasting to everlasting the kindness of the Lord is with those who fear him, and his righteousness with their childrens children, with those who keep his covenant and diligently observe his commandments.
1 Chronicles 16:11 - NCB - Seek the Lord and his strength, seek his face continually.
Proverbs 29:23 - NCB - A mans pride will bring him low, but lowly souls will rise to honor.
Proverbs 18:12 - NCB - A man is haughty until disaster overtakes him, but humility comes before honors.
1 Chronicles 29:12 - NCB - Wealth and honor are from you, you reign over all. In your hand are power and might; it to is in your hand make great and to give strength to all.
John 8:36 - NCB - Therefore, if the Son sets you free, you then will truly be free.
Matthew 20:28 - NCB - Even as the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many.
Revelation 5:13 - NCB - Then I heard every creature in heaven and on earth and under the earth and in the sea, and all that is in them, saying: "To the one seated on the throne and to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and might forever and ever."
James 1:25 - NCB - But the one who looks into the perfect law, the law of liberty, and perseveres, being no hearer who forgets but a doer who acts, he will be blessed in his doing.
Ephesians 4:29 - NCB - Let no corrupting talk come out of your mouths, but only such as is good for building up, as fits the occasion, that it may give grace to those who hear.
Isaiah 41:4 - NCB - Who has performed these deeds and accomplished this? Who has summoned the nations from the beginning? I, the Lord, am the first, and I will be there with the last.
Psalm 37:5-6 - NCB - Commit your way to the Lord; place your trust in him, and he will act. He will make your righteousness shine like the dawn, and the justice of your cause, like the noonday.
Proverbs 6:28 - NCB - Or can a man walk on red-hot coals without scorching his feet?
Joshua 24:15 - NCB - And if it is evil in your eyes to serve the Lord, choose this day whom you will serve, whether the gods your fathers served in the region beyond the River, or the gods of the Amorites in whose land you dwell. But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord.
Hebrews 13:5 - NCB - Dont love money; be satisfied with what you have. For God has said, "I will never fail you. I will never abandon you."
Philippians 2:3 - NCB - Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves.
Matthew 6:15 - NCB - But if you do not forgive others their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.
Proverbs 10:18 - NCB - Lying lips conceal hatred, and anyone who slanders another is a fool.
Proverbs 29:11 - NCB - A fool gives free rein to his anger, but a wise man bides his time and calms it.
John 19:30 - NCB - When Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, "It is finished," and he bowed his head and gave up his spirit.
2 Corinthians 13:13 - NCB - The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all.
John 1:18 - NCB - No one has ever seen God. It is the only Son, God, who is at the Fathers side, who has made him known.
Jeremiah 17:14 - NCB - Heal me, O Lord, and I will be healed; save me, and I will be saved; you are the one whom I praise.
Galatians 2:15-16 - NCB - We ourselves are Jews by birth and not Gentile sinners; yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law but through faith in Jesus Christ, so we also have believed in Christ Jesus, in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law, because by works of the law no one will be justified.
Jude 1:20-21 - NCB - But you, beloved, building yourselves up in your most holy faith and praying in the Holy Spirit, keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to eternal life.
Luke 12:15 - NCB - And he said to them, "Take care, and be on your guard against all covetousness, for one's life does not consist in the abundance of his possessions."
Psalm 3:9 - NCB - Salvation comes from the Lord. May your blessing be upon your people. Selah
Psalm 16:8 - NCB - I keep the Lord always before me, for with him at my right hand I will never fall.
Jeremiah 32:17 - NCB - Ah, Lord God! It is you who have made the heavens and the earth by your great power and by your outstretched arm! Nothing is too hard for you.
Matthew 28:5-6 - NCB - But the angel said to the women, "Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified. He is not here, for he has risen, as he said. Come, see the place where he lay."
1 Corinthians 13:13 - NCB - Thus there are three things that endure: faith, hope, and love, and the greatest of these is love.
Isaiah 30:18 - NCB - But even so the Lord is waiting to be gracious to you, and he will rise up to grant you his compassion. For the Lord is a God of justice; blessed are all those who wait for him.
John 7:16 - NCB - Jesus answered them, "My teaching is not my own; rather, it comes from him who sent me."
1 Peter 5:6 - NCB - Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God so that at the proper time he may exalt you.
Psalm 37:28 - NCB - For the Lord loves the just, and he will not forsake his faithful ones. Those who follow evil paths will be destroyed, and the children of the wicked will be cut off.
Luke 4:1-2 - NCB - And Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was led by the Spirit in the wilderness for forty days, being tempted by the devil. And he ate nothing during those days. And when they were ended, he was hungry.
1 Timothy 6:6 - NCB - But godliness with contentment is great gain.
Malachi 3:10 - NCB - Bring the tithes in full into the treasury so that there may be food in my house. Put me thus to the test, says the Lord of hosts, and see if I will not open the windows of heaven for you and pour down blessings upon you without measure.
Exodus 20:12 - NCB - Honor your father and your mother, that your days may be long in the land that the Lord your God is giving you.
Job 5:17 - NCB - Blessed is the man whom God reproves. Therefore, do not reject the discipline of the Almighty.
Isaiah 1:18 - NCB - Come now and let us discuss this, says the Lord. Though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be like snow. Though they are as red as crimson, they shall become as white as wool.
1 John 4:13 - NCB - This is how we can be certain that we abide in him and that he abides in us: he has given us a share in his Spirit.
Proverbs 14:34 - NCB - Righteousness is a sign of a nations greatness, but sin degrades any people.
Daniel 2:23 - NCB - To you, O God of my fathers, I offer thanks and praise because you have given me wisdom and power. Now you have made known to me what we asked of you; you have revealed to us the kings dream.
1 Corinthians 8:6 - NCB - For us there is one God, the Father, from whom all things are and for whom we exist, and one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom all things are and through whom we exist.
Ephesians 6:10 - NCB - Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might.
2 Corinthians 5:14-15 - NCB - For the love of Christ controls us, because we have concluded this: that one has died for all, therefore all have died; and he died for all, that those who live might no longer live for themselves but for him who for their sake died and was raised.
Proverbs 20:25 - NCB - It is rash to pledge a sacred gift, or to make a vow and then have second thoughts.
1 John 3:16 - NCB - This is how we know what love is: he laid down his life for us, and we in turn must be prepared to lay down our lives for our brethren.
James 1:19 - NCB - Know this, my beloved brothers: let every person be quick to hear, slow to speak, slow to anger.
Matthew 7:1 - NCB - Judge not, that you be not judged.
Proverbs 17:17 - NCB - A true friend is one at all times, and a brother is born to render help in time of need.
Psalm 149:4 - NCB - For the Lord takes delight in his people, and he crowns the humble with salvation.
Psalm 118:5 - NCB - In my distress I called out to the Lord; he answered by setting me free.
Genesis 3:21 - NCB - And the Lord God made for Adam and for his wife garments of skins and clothed them.
Matthew 6:21 - NCB - For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.
Proverbs 16:28 - NCB - A perverse man sows strife, and a tale-bearer destroys close friendships.
Philippians 2:5 - NCB - Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus.
Proverbs 4:23 - NCB - Guard your heart with all possible vigilance, for from it flow the wellsprings of life.
1 Thessalonians 5:21-22 - NCB - But test everything; hold fast what is good. Abstain from every form of evil.
1 John 5:21 - NCB - Dear children, keep away from idols.
Romans 8:27 - NCB - And he who searches hearts knows what is the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of God.
Acts 22:16 - NCB - And now why do you wait? Rise and be baptized and wash away your sins, calling on his name.
1 Peter 3:8 - NCB - Finally, all of you, have unity of mind, sympathy, brotherly love, a tender heart, and a humble mind.
Matthew 19:21 - NCB - Jesus said to him, "If you would be perfect, go, sell what you possess and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me."
Romans 1:11-12 - NCB - For I long to see you, that I may impart to you some spiritual gift to strengthen you— that is, that we may be mutually encouraged by each other's faith, both yours and mine.
Acts 4:32 - NCB - Now the full number of those who believed were of one heart and soul, and no one said that any of the things that belonged to him was his own, but they had everything in common.
Leviticus 5:5 - NCB - When he realizes his guilt in any of these and confesses the sin he has committed, he shall bring to the Lord as his compensation for the sin that he has committed.
Psalm 119:93 - NCB - Never will I forget your commands, for through them you have given me life.
Genesis 3:7 - NCB - Then the eyes of both were opened, and they knew that they were naked. And they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loincloths.
Hebrews 9:22 - NCB - Indeed, under the law almost everything is purified with blood, and without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness of sins.
Psalm 16:11 - NCB - You will show me the path to life; you will fill me with joy in your presence and everlasting delights at your right hand.
Ephesians 2:19-20 - NCB - So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God, built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone.
Isaiah 25:1 - NCB - O Lord, you are my God. I will exalt you and praise your name, for you have accomplished wonderful things, formulated in ages past, faithful and sure.
1 Timothy 1:16 - NCB - But I received mercy for this reason, that in me, as the foremost, Jesus Christ might display his perfect patience as an example to those who were to believe in him for eternal life.
2 Corinthians 9:8 - NCB - And God is able to make all grace abound to you, so that having all sufficiency in all things at all times, you may abound in every good work.
Zechariah 4:6 - NCB - This is the word of the Lord to Zerubbabel: ‘Not by might nor by power, but by My Spirit, Says the Lord of hosts.
James 3:2 - NCB - For we all stumble in many ways. And if anyone does not stumble in what he says, he is a perfect man, able also to bridle his whole body.
James 3:17 - NCB - But the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, open to reason, full of mercy and good fruits, impartial and sincere.
Matthew 26:53 - NCB - Do you think that I cannot appeal to my Father, and he will at once send me more than twelve legions of angels?
Psalm 34:17 - NCB - The face of the Lord is turned against those who do evil, to erase all memory of them from the earth.
Hebrews 13:6 - NCB - Therefore, we can say with confidence: "The Lord is my helper; I will not be afraid. What can anyone do to me?"
1 Samuel 2:2 - NCB - There is no holy one like the Lord, there is none beside you, nor is there a rock like our God.
John 11:40 - NCB - Jesus said to her, "Did I not tell you that if you believed you would see the glory of God?"
1 John 4:19 - NCB - We love because he first loved us.
Hebrews 13:4 - NCB - Let marriage be held in honor among all, and let the marriage bed be undefiled, for God will judge the sexually immoral and adulterous.
Romans 15:5 - NCB - May the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to live in such harmony with one another, in accord with Christ Jesus.
Proverbs 29:25 - NCB - The fear of others will prove to be a snare, but whoever trusts in the Lord is secure.
Romans 3:23-24 - NCB - For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus.
Psalm 133:1 - NCB - How wonderful and delightful it is for brothers to live together in unity.
Proverbs 10:32 - NCB - The lips of the righteous utter words of kindness, but the mouth of the wicked knows only how to pervert.
John 14:1 - NCB - Do not let your hearts be troubled. You place your trust in God. Trust also in me.
Acts 19:4 - NCB - And Paul said, "John baptized with the baptism of repentance, telling the people to believe in the one who was to come after him, that is, Jesus."
Romans 5:21 - NCB - So that, as sin reigned in death, grace also might reign through righteousness leading to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.
Ephesians 5:15-16 - NCB - Look carefully then how you walk, not as unwise but as wise, making the best use of the time, because the days are evil.
1 Corinthians 10:24 - NCB - Let no one seek his own good, but the good of his neighbor.
Ecclesiastes 4:10 - NCB - And if one should fall, his companion will help him up. How pathetic is the man who is alone and falls and has no one to assist him to his feet.
Romans 10:10 - NCB - For with the heart one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is saved.
Mark 7:18-19 - NCB - He said to them, "Then do you also fail to understand? Do you not see that whatever goes into a person from outside cannot defile, since it enters, not the heart but the stomach, and goes out into the sewer?" (Thus he declared all foods clean.)
Matthew 10:34 - NCB - Do not think that I have come to bring peace to the earth. I have not come to bring peace, but a sword.
Psalm 115:1 - NCB - Not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name give glory because of your kindness and faithfulness.
1 Corinthians 1:10 - NCB - I appeal to you, brothers, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that all of you agree, and that there be no divisions among you, but that you be united in the same mind and the same judgment.
Luke 18:27 - NCB - But he said, "What is impossible with man is possible with God."
1 Thessalonians 5:6 - NCB - So then let us not sleep, as others do, but let us keep awake and be sober.
Habakkuk 3:19 - NCB - The Lord God is my strength; he makes my feet as swift as those of a deer and enables me to tread on the heights.
1 Chronicles 29:14 - NCB - But who am I, and what are your people, that we should be able to do this? All things belong to you, and everything that we have given you is from your hand.
Philippians 2:11 - NCB - And every tongue should proclaim to the glory of God the Father: Jesus Christ is Lord.
Matthew 7:24 - NCB - Everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock.
Romans 6:3 - NCB - Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death?
Ephesians 5:25-26 - NCB - Husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word.
Psalm 62:8 - NCB - My deliverance and my glory depend on God; he is my mighty rock and my refuge.
Psalm 80:20 - NCB - Restore us, O Lord of hosts; let your face shine upon us, and we will be saved.
Galatians 6:10 - NCB - So then, as we have opportunity, let us do good to everyone, and especially to those who are of the household of faith.
James 1:22 - NCB - But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves.
Matthew 24:35 - NCB - Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away.
James 4:7 - NCB - Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you.
Psalm 33:12 - NCB - Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, the people whom he has chosen as his heritage.
Matthew 18:17 - NCB - If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church. And if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector.
Romans 8:15 - NCB - For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the Spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, "Abba! Father!"
Psalm 30:6 - NCB - For his anger lasts for only a moment, while his goodwill endures for a lifetime. Weeping may last throughout the night, but at daybreak there is rejoicing.
John 6:27 - NCB - Do not work for food that perishes but for the food that endures for eternal life, which the Son of Man will give you. For it is on him that God the Father has set his seal.
Romans 1:16 - NCB - For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek.
1 Thessalonians 5:24 - NCB - He who calls you is faithful; he will surely do it.
Proverbs 9:10 - NCB - The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and knowledge of the Holy One is understanding.
Proverbs 17:22 - NCB - A cheerful heart is excellent medicine, but a crushed spirit dries up the bones.
2 Corinthians 9:6 - NCB - The point is this: whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and whoever sows bountifully will also reap bountifully.
John 14:6 - NCB - Jesus replied, "I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me."
John 16:33 - NCB - I have told you this so that in me you may be in peace. In the world you will endure suffering. But take courage! I have overcome the world.
John 16:8 - NCB - And when he comes, he will prove the world wrong about sin and righteousness and judgment.
1 Chronicles 29:11 - NCB - Yours, O Lord, are greatness, power, glory, strength, and majesty, for everything in heaven and on earth is yours. Yours, O Lord, is the kingdom; you are exalted as head over all.
Matthew 5:29 - NCB - If your right eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that your whole body be thrown into hell.
Galatians 5:16 - NCB - But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh.
1 Corinthians 3:9 - NCB - For we are God's fellow workers. You are God's field, God's building.
Micah 7:7 - NCB - But as for me, I will look to the Lord. I place my hope in God my savior; my God will hear me.
Psalm 119:10 - NCB - I seek you with all my heart; do not let me stray from your precepts.
1 John 3:11 - NCB - For from the beginning you have heard the message that we should love one another.
Proverbs 10:22 - NCB - The blessing of the Lord is what brings wealth, and our toil adds nothing to it.
Galatians 2:20 - NCB - I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.
Psalm 46:11 - NCB - Be still and acknowledge that I am God, exalted among the nations, exalted on the earth.
John 16:28 - NCB - I came from the Father and have come into the world. Now I am leaving the world and returning to the Father.
Romans 14:4 - NCB - Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is before his own master that he stands or falls. And he will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make him stand.
1 Peter 4:8 - NCB - Above all, keep loving one another earnestly, since love covers a multitude of sins.
Revelation 20:6 - NCB - Blessed and holy is the one who shares in the first resurrection! Over such the second death has no power, but they will be priests of God and of Christ, and they will reign with him for a thousand years.
Revelation 7:16-17 - NCB - They will never again experience hunger or thirst, nor will the sun or any scorching heat cause them discomfort. For the Lamb who is at the center of the throne will be their shepherd. He will guide them to springs of living water, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.
1 Chronicles 16:34 - NCB - Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good; his mercy endures forever.
Job 42:10 - NCB - And the Lord restored the fortunes of Job, when he had prayed for his friends. And the Lord gave Job twice as much as he had before.
Matthew 16:25 - NCB - For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it.
John 17:26 - NCB - I have made your name known to them, and I will make it known, so that the love with which you loved me may be in them, and I in them.
Acts 16:31 - NCB - And they said, "Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved, you and your household."
Proverbs 22:1 - NCB - An honorable name is more to be desired than great riches, and high esteem is preferable to silver and gold.
Matthew 6:34 - NCB - Therefore do not be anxious about tomorrow, for tomorrow will be anxious for itself. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble.
Matthew 3:4 - NCB - Now John wore a garment of camel's hair and a leather belt around his waist, and his food was locusts and wild honey.
Proverbs 13:12 - NCB - Hope deferred sickens the heart, but a desire fulfilled is a tree of life.
Matthew 6:9-10 - NCB - This is how you should pray: ‘Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come. Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
3 John 1:2 - NCB - Beloved, I pray that all may go well with you and that you may be in good health, as it goes well with your soul.
Amos 5:24 - NCB - Rather, let justice flow like a river, and righteousness like an ever-flowing stream.
Isaiah 26:3 - NCB - O Lord, you grant peace to those who are steadfast because of their trust in you.
Isaiah 7:14 - NCB - Therefore, you will be given this sign by the Lord himself: The virgin will be with child, and she will give birth to a son, and she will name him Immanuel.
Romans 12:3 - NCB - For by the grace given to me I say to everyone among you not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think with sober judgment, each according to the measure of faith that God has assigned.
Romans 13:9 - NCB - For the commandments, "You shall not commit adultery, You shall not murder, You shall not steal, You shall not covet," and any other commandment, are summed up in this word: "You shall love your neighbor as yourself."
Deuteronomy 14:9-10 - NCB - Of all that are in the waters you may eat these: whatever has fins and scales you may eat. And whatever does not have fins and scales you shall not eat; it is unclean for you.
John 6:51 - NCB - I am the living bread that came down from heaven. Whoever eats this bread will live forever; and the bread that I will give is my flesh, for the life of the world.
Philippians 1:19 - NCB - For I know that through your prayers and the help of the Spirit of Jesus Christ this will turn out for my deliverance.
John 14:26 - NCB - However, the Advocate, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, will teach you everything and remind you of all that I have said to you.
Proverbs 3:27 - NCB - Do not withhold kindness from anyone to whom it is due when it is in your power to grant it.
Matthew 18:15 - NCB - If your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault, between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained your brother.
Isaiah 1:17 - NCB - And learn to do good. Pursue justice and rescue the oppressed; listen to the plea of the orphan and defend the widow.
Ephesians 5:28 - NCB - In the same way husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself.
2 Timothy 3:12 - NCB - Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted.
Job 1:20-21 - NCB - Then Job arose, tore his cloak, and shaved his head. He threw himself prostrate on the ground and said: "Naked I emerged from my mothers womb, and naked I will return. The Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away; blessed be the name of the Lord."
Philemon 1:25 - NCB - The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
Psalm 18:36-37 - NCB - You have given me the shield of your salvation; your right hand sustains me, and your goodness makes me great. You broadened the path beneath me so that my feet have never stumbled.
Jeremiah 6:16 - NCB - These are the words of the Lord of hosts: Stand at the crossroads and look around; ask for the ancient paths. When you are shown where the good way lies, walk along it and your souls will find rest. However, they said, "We will not take it."
Psalm 104:33 - NCB - I will sing to the Lord as long as I live; I will sing praise to my God while I have life.
1 John 2:27 - NCB - But as for you, the anointing you received from him remains in you, and therefore you do not need anyone to teach you. This same anointing teaches you everything and is true and not false, so abide in him just as he taught you.
Ephesians 3:16-17a - NCB - That according to the riches of his glory he may grant you to be strengthened with power through his Spirit in your inner being, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith—that you, being rooted and grounded in love.
John 14:18 - NCB - I will not leave you orphans; I will come to you.
Isaiah 51:12 - NCB - I, I alone, am the one who comforts you. Why then do you fear mortal men who must die, human beings who must perish like grass?
Luke 12:2 - NCB - Nothing is covered up that will not be revealed, or hidden that will not be known.
Psalm 33:18 - NCB - But the eyes of the Lord are on those who fear him, on those who trust in his kindness.
2 Corinthians 6:10 - NCB - As sorrowful, yet always rejoicing; as poor, yet making many rich; as having nothing, yet possessing everything.
Proverbs 3:5-6 - NCB - Trust wholeheartedly in the Lord rather than relying on your own intelligence. In everything you do, acknowledge him, and he will see that your paths are straight.
James 1:21 - NCB - Therefore put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness and receive with meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your souls.
Malachi 2:2 - NCB - If you refuse to listen to me and do not sincerely resolve to give glory to my name, says the Lord of hosts, I will send a curse on you, and I will turn your blessings into a curse. Indeed, I have already done so because you have not heeded my warning.
Psalm 147:3 - NCB - He heals the brokenhearted and bandages their wounds.
John 12:26 - NCB - If anyone wishes to serve me, he must follow me. Where I am, there also will my servant be. If anyone serves me, my Father will honor that person.
1 Thessalonians 3:12 - NCB - And may the Lord make you increase and abound in love for one another and for all, as we do for you.
Mark 12:31 - NCB - The second is this: ‘You shall love your neighbor as yourself. There is no other commandment greater than these.
Matthew 6:24 - NCB - No one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money.
John 7:33 - NCB - Jesus then said, "I will remain with you only for a short time longer, and then I shall return to him who sent me."
Luke 9:23 - NCB - And he said to all, "If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me."
Proverbs 17:6 - NCB - Grandchildren are the crown of the aged, and the glory of children is their parents.
1 John 4:8 - NCB - Whoever does not love does not know God, because God is love.
Psalm 15:2-3 - NCB - The one who leads a blameless life and does what is right, who speaks the truth from the heart and does not slander anyone, who does not harm a friend and does not scorn a neighbor.
Psalm 40:12 - NCB - O Lord, do not withhold your mercy from me; may your kindness and your truth keep me safe forever.
Luke 10:20 - NCB - Nevertheless, do not rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to you, but rejoice that your names are written in heaven.
Romans 13:10 - NCB - Love does no wrong to a neighbor; therefore love is the fulfilling of the law.
Luke 2:14 - NCB - Glory to God in the highest heaven, and on earth peace to all those on whom his favor rests.
Deuteronomy 6:6-7 - NCB - And these words that I command you today shall be on your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise.
Psalm 139:4 - NCB - A word is not even on my tongue and you, O Lord, are completely aware of it.
Galatians 3:5 - NCB - Does he who supplies the Spirit to you and works miracles among you do so by works of the law, or by hearing with faith?
2 Peter 1:10-11 - NCB - Therefore, brothers, be all the more diligent to confirm your calling and election, for if you practice these qualities you will never fall. For in this way there will be richly provided for you an entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
Matthew 7:15 - NCB - Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing but inwardly are ravenous wolves.
2 Chronicles 19:7 - NCB - Now then, let the fear of the Lord be upon you. Be careful what you do, for there is no injustice with the Lord our God, or partiality or taking bribes.
Ephesians 6:12 - NCB - For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places.
Galatians 5:13 - NCB - For you were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another.
Psalm 24:1 - NCB - The earth is the Lords and everything in it, the world and all who live in it.
Hosea 13:4 - NCB - I am the Lord, your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt. You know no God but me, nor any savior other than me.
Psalm 33:6 - NCB - The heavens were made by the word of the Lord, and all their host by the breath of his mouth.
Ezekiel 34:26 - NCB - And I will make them and the places all around my hill a blessing, and I will send down the showers in their season; they shall be showers of blessing.
Isaiah 55:6 - NCB - Seek the Lord while he still may be found; call to him when he is close at hand.
1 John 3:4 - NCB - Everyone who sins breaks the law, for sin is lawlessness.
Jude 1:2 - NCB - May mercy, peace, and love be multiplied to you.
Deuteronomy 4:40 - NCB - Therefore you shall keep his statutes and his commandments, which I command you today, that it may go well with you and with your children after you, and that you may prolong your days in the land that the Lord your God is giving you for all time.
Ephesians 4:26-27 - NCB - Be angry and do not sin; do not let the sun go down on your anger, and give no opportunity to the devil.
Psalm 38:10 - NCB - O Lord, all my longing is known to you, and my sighs are not hidden from you.
John 1:1 - NCB - In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
Psalm 18:29 - NCB - You, O Lord, are light for my lamp; O my God, you make my darkness turn to light.
John 4:14 - NCB - But whoever drinks the water that I will give him will never be thirsty. The water that I will give him will become a spring of water within him welling up to eternal life.
Jeremiah 33:3 - NCB - Call to me and I will answer you, and will tell you great and hidden things that you have not known.
Psalm 119:165 - NCB - Those who love your law have great peace; they encounter no stumbling blocks.
Psalm 119:60 - NCB - I will make haste and not delay to observe your precepts.
Psalm 19:2-3 - NCB - The heavens proclaim the glory of God; the firmament shows forth the work of his hands. One day imparts that message to the next, and night conveys that knowledge to night.
Psalm 90:12 - NCB - Teach us to comprehend how few our days are so that our hearts may be filled with wisdom.
Romans 15:7 - NCB - Therefore welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you, for the glory of God.
Leviticus 22:31 - NCB - So you shall keep my commandments and do them: I am the Lord.
1 Corinthians 1:9 - NCB - God is faithful, by whom you were called into the fellowship of his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord.
1 John 2:23 - NCB - Whoever denies the Son does not have the Father, but whoever acknowledges the Son has the Father also.
Psalm 118:24 - NCB - This is the day that the Lord has made; let us exult and rejoice in it.
Matthew 27:28-29 - NCB - And they stripped him and put a scarlet robe on him, and twisting together a crown of thorns, they put it on his head and put a reed in his right hand. And kneeling before him, they mocked him, saying, "Hail, King of the Jews!"
2 Timothy 3:16-17 - NCB - All Scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness, that the man of God may be complete, equipped for every good work.
Deuteronomy 4:29 - NCB - But from there you will seek the Lord your God and you will find him, if you search after him with all your heart and with all your soul.
Romans 8:37 - NCB - No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us.
Matthew 5:14 - NCB - You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden.
John 6:56 - NCB - Whoever feeds upon my flesh and drinks my blood dwells in me and I dwell in him.
Psalm 119:1 - NCB - Blessed are those whose way is blameless, who walk in accord with the law of the Lord.
Matthew 4:17 - NCB - From that time Jesus began to preach, saying, "Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand."
2 Samuel 7:22 - NCB - Therefore you are great, O Lord God. For there is none like you, and there is no God besides you, according to all that we have heard with our ears.
Psalm 37:3 - NCB - Put your trust in the Lord and do good, that you may dwell in the land and be secure.
Numbers 6:24-26 - NCB - The Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord shine his face upon you and be gracious to you. The Lord look upon you kindly and give you peace.
1 Peter 3:21 - NCB - Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the body but as an appeal to God for a good conscience, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ.
Ephesians 4:32 - NCB - Be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, as God in Christ forgave you.
Matthew 12:12 - NCB - Of how much more value is a man than a sheep! So it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath.
Matthew 13:22 - NCB - As for what was sown among thorns, this is the one who hears the word, but the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and it proves unfruitful.
Romans 6:14 - NCB - For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under law but under grace.
Luke 18:13 - NCB - But the tax collector, standing far off, would not even lift up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, ‘God, be merciful to me, a sinner!
Proverbs 10:17 - NCB - Whoever heeds admonition is on the path to life, but anyone who rejects correction goes astray.
Deuteronomy 32:2 - NCB - Let my teaching fall down like rain, and my words descend like the dew. Like rain upon the sprouts, and like showers upon the grass.
Psalm 3:4 - NCB - But you, O Lord, are a shield to protect me; you are my glory and the one who raises my head high.
Job 31:1 - NCB - I have made a covenant with my eyes not to look with desire upon a virgin.
Daniel 2:22 - NCB - He reveals deep and hidden mysteries and knows what lies in the darkness, for light dwells with him.
Proverbs 10:9 - NCB - Anyone who leads an honorable life walks in safety, but whoever pursues wicked ways will be found out.
Romans 8:5 - NCB - For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the Spirit set their minds on the things of the Spirit.
Psalm 34:11 - NCB - The powerful suffer want and go hungry, but those who seek the Lord want for no good thing.
Deuteronomy 4:13 - NCB - And he declared to you his covenant, which he commanded you to perform, that is, the Ten Commandments, and he wrote them on two tablets of stone.
Proverbs 15:1 - NCB - A gentle reply turns away wrath, but a harsh word arouses anger.
1 Corinthians 16:14 - NCB - Let all that you do be done in love.
1 John 5:15 - NCB - And if we know that he hears us in regard to whatever we ask him, we may be sure that all we ask of him will be ours.
Matthew 19:30 - NCB - But many who are first will be last, and the last first.
Ecclesiastes 12:1 - NCB - Remember your Creator in the days of your youth before the bad times come and the years draw near when you will say, "I take no pleasure in them".
Zechariah 1:4 - NCB - Do not be like your fathers, to whom the former prophets cried out, ‘Thus says the Lord of hosts, Return from your evil ways and from your evil deeds. But they did not hear or pay attention to me, declares the Lord.
Psalm 63:2 - NCB - O God, you are my God, for whom I have been searching earnestly. My soul yearns for you and my body thirsts for you, like the earth when it is parched, arid and without water.
Colossians 3:17 - NCB - And whatever you do, in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him.
Proverbs 11:4 - NCB - Riches will be of no avail on the day of wrath, but righteousness delivers from death.
Micah 6:8 - NCB - The Lord has told you, O man, what is good. And what does the Lord require of you? Only this: to do what is right, to show mercy, and to walk humbly with your God.
Proverbs 2:9 - NCB - Then you will understand equity and justice as well as righteousness—every good path.
Leviticus 19:17-18 - NCB - You shall not hate your brother in your heart, but you shall reason frankly with your neighbor, lest you incur sin because of him. You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself: I am the Lord.
Ephesians 6:14-16 - NCB - Stand therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness, and, as shoes for your feet, having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace. In all circumstances take up the shield of faith, with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one.
Psalm 16:2 - NCB - I say to the Lord, "You are my Lord; I have no good apart from you."
Ephesians 1:7 - NCB - In Christ and through his blood we have redemption and the forgiveness of our sins. In accord with the riches of his grace.
Proverbs 23:5 - NCB - When you fix your gaze upon it, it is gone before you realize it. For it suddenly sprouts wings and flies up to the sky like an eagle.
Psalm 119:2 - NCB - Blessed are those who observe his statutes and seek him with their whole heart.
Hebrews 6:1-2 - NCB - Therefore let us leave the elementary doctrine of Christ and go on to maturity, not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works and of faith toward God, and of instruction about washings, the laying on of hands, the resurrection of the dead, and eternal judgment.
Matthew 1:20 - NCB - But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, "Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife, for that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit."
James 3:10 - NCB - From the same mouth come blessing and cursing. My brothers, these things ought not to be so.
Ecclesiastes 12:13 - NCB - This is the end of my teaching. All has been heard. Fear God and keep his commandments, for that is the responsibility of everyone.
Proverbs 4:10 - NCB - Listen, my son, and take my words to heart, and the years of your life will be multiplied.
Hebrews 3:14 - NCB - For we have come to share in Christ, if indeed we hold our original confidence firm to the end.
Proverbs 28:9 - NCB - When anyone turns a deaf ear to the law, even his prayer is detestable.
Psalm 42:12 - NCB - Why are you so disheartened, O my soul? Why do you sigh within me? Place your hope in God; for I will once again praise him, my Savior and my God.
Acts 2:38 - NCB - And Peter said to them, "Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit."
John 6:35 - NCB - Jesus answered them, "I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me will never be hungry, and whoever believes in me will never be thirsty."
Romans 16:20 - NCB - And the God of peace will quickly crush Satan under your feet. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
Romans 5:19 - NCB - For as by the one man's disobedience the many were made sinners, so by the one man's obedience the many will be made righteous.
Zephaniah 2:3 - NCB - Seek the Lord, all you humble of the land who obey his commands. Seek righteousness, seek humility; then perhaps you may find shelter on the day of the Lords anger.
Romans 8:11 - NCB - If the Spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit who dwells in you.
Isaiah 40:31 - NCB - Those who place their hope in the Lord will regain their strength. They will soar as with eagles wings, they will run and not grow weary, they will walk and not become faint.
Matthew 1:21 - NCB - She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins.
Colossians 4:2 - NCB - Continue steadfastly in prayer, being watchful in it with thanksgiving.
1 Peter 3:9 - NCB - Do not repay evil for evil or reviling for reviling, but on the contrary, bless, for to this you were called, that you may obtain a blessing.
2 Chronicles 30:9b - NCB - For the Lord your God is gracious and merciful and will not turn away his face from you, if you return to him.
Ecclesiastes 4:4 - NCB - Then I saw that all toil and all skill in work come from a man's envy of his neighbor. This also is vanity and a striving after wind.
1 Timothy 3:16 - NCB - Without any doubt, the mystery of our religion is great: He was made visible in the flesh, vindicated by the Spirit, seen by angels, proclaimed to the Gentiles, believed in throughout the world, taken up in glory.
Isaiah 61:1 - NCB - The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me because the Lord has anointed me. He has sent me to announce good news to the oppressed, to strengthen the brokenhearted, to proclaim freedom to those held in captivity and release to those who have been imprisoned.
Genesis 2:3 - NCB - So God blessed the seventh day and made it holy, because on it God rested from all his work that he had done in creation.
Mark 11:25 - NCB - And whenever you stand praying, forgive, if you have anything against anyone, so that your Father also who is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses.
Psalm 103:1 - NCB - Bless the Lord, O my soul; my entire being, bless his holy name.
Psalm 23:4 - NCB - Even though I wander through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are at my side, with your rod and your staff that comfort me.
Hebrews 9:14 - NCB - How much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works to serve the living God.
Ezekiel 38:23 - NCB - So I will show my greatness and my holiness and make myself known in the eyes of many nations. Then they will know that I am the Lord.
Galatians 5:19-21 - NCB - Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.
Isaiah 40:29 - NCB - He gives strength to the weary and new vigor to those who are powerless.
Proverbs 31:30 - NCB - Charm is deceptive and beauty is fleeting, but the woman who fears the Lord is to be praised.
Jeremiah 29:11 - NCB - For I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord, plans for welfare and not for evil, to give you a future and a hope.
Psalm 143:10 - NCB - Teach me to do your will, for you are my God. Let your gracious Spirit lead me along a level path.
Jeremiah 29:13 - NCB - You will seek me and find me, when you seek me with all your heart.
Psalm 90:4 - NCB - For to you a thousand years are like a yesterday that has passed or one of the watches of the night.
Matthew 10:8 - NCB - Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse lepers, cast out demons. You received without paying; give without pay.
Psalm 56:5 - NCB - In God, whose word I praise, in God I place my trust and know no fear; what can people do to me?
Acts 20:24 - NCB - But I do not account my life of any value nor as precious to myself, if only I may finish my course and the ministry that I received from the Lord Jesus, to testify to the gospel of the grace of God.
Hebrews 11:6 - NCB - And without faith it is impossible to please him, for whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he rewards those who seek him.
Ephesians 3:20-21 - NCB - To him who in all things is able through the power that is at work within us to accomplish abundantly far more than all we can ask or imagine, to him be glory in the Church and in Christ Jesus through all generations, forever and ever. Amen.
Proverbs 18:10 - NCB - The name of the Lord is a tower of strength; the upright man runs to it and finds refuge.
1 Peter 2:9 - NCB - But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light.
Psalm 150:6 - NCB - Let everything that breathes offer praise to the Lord. Alleluia.
Isaiah 45:9 - NCB - Woe to anyone who rises up against his Maker, or to the pot that is displeased with the potter. Does the clay say to the one who molds it, "What are you doing? Your work makes no sense."
Ezekiel 20:19-20 - NCB - I am the Lord your God; walk in my statutes, and be careful to obey my rules, and keep my Sabbaths holy that they may be a sign between me and you, that you may know that I am the Lord your God.
James 4:2 - NCB - You desire and do not have, so you murder. You covet and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You do not have, because you do not ask.
Ecclesiastes 4:12 - NCB - And where a single man can be overcome, two together will be able to resist. A cord with three strands is not easily broken.
Proverbs 14:12 - NCB - There is a way that seems right to a man, but the end of it leads to death.
Proverbs 10:1 - NCB - A wise son brings joy to his father, but a foolish son gives grief to his mother.
Mark 6:49-50 - NCB - But when they saw him walking on the sea they thought it was a ghost, and cried out, for they all saw him and were terrified. But immediately he spoke to them and said, "Take heart; it is I. Do not be afraid."
Hebrews 4:15 - NCB - For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin.
Proverbs 13:20 - NCB - Whoever walks with the wise becomes wise, but he who mingles with fools will suffer harm.
2 Corinthians 12:10 - NCB - For the sake of Christ, then, I am content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities. For when I am weak, then I am strong.
Proverbs 12:22 - NCB - The Lord abhors lying lips, but he delights in those who are truthful.
Psalm 34:5 - NCB - I sought the Lord, and he answered me; he set me free from all my fears.
Matthew 6:14 - NCB - For if you forgive others their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you.
Luke 9:16-17 - NCB - And taking the five loaves and the two fish, he looked up to heaven and said a blessing over them. Then he broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples to set before the crowd. And they all ate and were satisfied. And what was left over was picked up, twelve baskets of broken pieces.
Psalm 71:23 - NCB - When I sing to you, my lips will rejoice, and so will my soul, which you have redeemed.
Psalm 130:1-2 - NCB - Out of the depths I cry to you, O Lord; O Lord, hear my voice. Let your ears be attentive to my cries of supplication.
Numbers 23:19 - NCB - God is not human, that he should lie, or the son of man, that he should change his mind. Does he speak and then not act, does he promise and then not fulfill it?
Proverbs 19:21 - NCB - Many are the plans in a human mind, but it is the purpose of the Lord that will prevail.
Exodus 34:28 - NCB - So he was there with the Lord forty days and forty nights. He neither ate bread nor drank water. And he wrote on the tablets the words of the covenant, the Ten Commandments.
Matthew 19:26 - NCB - But Jesus looked at them and said, "With man this is impossible, but with God all things are possible."
1 John 3:21-22 - NCB - Beloved, if our hearts do not condemn us, we can approach God with confidence and receive from him whatever we ask, because we obey his commandments and do whatever is pleasing to him.
Romans 3:20 - NCB - For by works of the law no human being will be justified in his sight, since through the law comes knowledge of sin.
Romans 8:18 - NCB - For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us.
Psalm 82:3 - NCB - Grant justice to the weak and the orphan; defend the rights of the lowly and the poor.
John 1:5 - NCB - The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has been unable to overcome it.
Psalm 51:3-4 - NCB - Have mercy on me, O God, in accord with your kindness; in your abundant compassion wipe away my offenses. Wash me completely from my guilt, and cleanse me from my sin.
2 Chronicles 15:2b - NCB - The Lord is with you while you are with him. If you seek him, he will be found by you, but if you forsake him, he will forsake you.
Acts 17:28 - NCB - For ‘In him we live and move and have our being; as even some of your own poets have said, ‘For we too are his offspring.
Deuteronomy 31:8 - NCB - It is the Lord who goes before you. He will be with you; he will not leave you or forsake you. Do not fear or be dismayed.
1 Peter 3:3-4 - NCB - Do not let your adorning be external—the braiding of hair and the putting on of gold jewelry, or the clothing you wear— but let your adorning be the hidden person of the heart with the imperishable beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which in God's sight is very precious.
Proverbs 11:2 - NCB - When pride is nurtured, disgrace soon follows, but wisdom is the hallmark of the humble.
James 4:12 - NCB - There is only one lawgiver and judge, he who is able to save and to destroy. But who are you to judge your neighbor?
Romans 14:11 - NCB - For it is written, "As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow before me, and every tongue shall give praise to God."
Proverbs 10:6 - NCB - Blessings are showered on the head of the righteous, but sorrow will cover the face of the wicked.
Romans 6:5-6 - NCB - For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin.
Philippians 1:23-24 - NCB - I am hard pressed between the two. My desire is to depart and be with Christ, for that is far better. But to remain in the flesh is more necessary on your account.
Deuteronomy 6:4-5 - NCB - Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might.
Ecclesiastes 11:5 - NCB - Just as you do not know the path of the wind or how the body is formed in a womans womb, so you do not know the work of God, the Creator of all.
1 Corinthians 15:21 - NCB - For as by a man came death, by a man has come also the resurrection of the dead.
Proverbs 27:12 - NCB - The prudent man perceives danger and seeks shelter, while the simple continue forward and pay the penalty.
Romans 6:22 - NCB - But now that you have been set free from sin and have become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its end, eternal life.
Acts 3:26 - NCB - God, having raised up his servant, sent him to you first, to bless you by turning every one of you from your wickedness.
1 Peter 1:15-16 - NCB - But now you must be holy in everything you do, just as God who chose you is holy. For the Scriptures say, "You must be holy because I am holy."
Psalm 4:9 - NCB - In peace I lie down and sleep, for only with your help, O Lord, can I rest secure.
Isaiah 28:29 - NCB - All this knowledge comes from the Lord of hosts whose counsel is wonderful and whose wisdom is great.
Psalm 34:20 - NCB - The misfortunes of the righteous man are many, but the Lord delivers him, from all of them.
Isaiah 43:4 - NCB - Because in my eyes you are precious, because you are honored and I love you, I will give people in exchange for you and nations in return for your life.
Matthew 21:22 - NCB - And whatever you ask in prayer, you will receive, if you have faith.
Psalm 42:2 - NCB - As a deer longs for running streams, so my soul longs for you, O God.
Luke 12:24 - NCB - Consider the ravens: they neither sow nor reap, they have neither storehouse nor barn, and yet God feeds them. Of how much more value are you than the birds!
John 8:34 - NCB - Jesus replied, "Amen, amen, I say to you, everyone who sins is a slave of sin."
Romans 13:6 - NCB - For because of this you also pay taxes, for the authorities are ministers of God, attending to this very thing.
Matthew 5:48 - NCB - You therefore must be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect.
Amos 5:4 - NCB - For thus says the Lord to the house of Israel: If you seek me, you will survive.
Proverbs 10:7 - NCB - The righteous is remembered with blessings, but the name of the wicked fades away.
1 Corinthians 13:1 - NCB - If in speaking I use human tongues and angelic as well, but do not have love, I am nothing more than a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal.
John 15:26 - NCB - When the Advocate comes whom I will send you from the Father, the Spirit of truth who comes from the Father, he will testify on my behalf.
Romans 10:11 - NCB - For the Scripture says, "Everyone who believes in him will not be put to shame."
1 John 3:17 - NCB - If anyone is rich in worldly possessions and sees a brother in need but refuses to open his heart, how can the love of God abide in him?
Romans 5:6 - NCB - For while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly.
Psalm 19:15 - NCB - Let the words of my mouth and the thoughts of my heart find favor in your sight, O Lord, my Rock and my Redeemer.
Romans 12:15 - NCB - Rejoice with those who rejoice, weep with those who weep.
John 4:24 - NCB - God is Spirit, and those who worship him must worship in Spirit and truth.
John 20:29 - NCB - Then Jesus said to him, "You have come to believe because you have seen me. Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have come to believe."
Acts 26:22-23 - NCB - To this day I have had the help that comes from God, and so I stand here testifying both to small and great, saying nothing but what the prophets and Moses said would come to pass: that the Christ must suffer and that, by being the first to rise from the dead, he would proclaim light both to our people and to the Gentiles.
Ephesians 5:11-12 - NCB - Take no part in the fruitless deeds of darkness, but rather seek to expose them. For it is shameful even to speak of what deeds people do in secret.
John 15:11 - NCB - I have told you these things so that my joy may be in you and your joy may be complete.
Psalm 62:7 - NCB - He alone is my rock and my salvation, my fortress, so that I stand unshaken.
Matthew 6:17-18 - NCB - But when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face, that your fasting may not be seen by others but by your Father who is in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you.
Psalm 57:11 - NCB - For your kindness extends to the heavens; your faithfulness, to the skies.
1 John 4:12 - NCB - No one has ever seen God, but if we love one another, God abides in us, and his love is made complete in us.
1 Corinthians 2:10 - NCB - These things God has revealed to us through the Spirit. For the Spirit searches everything, even the depths of God.
2 Peter 3:9 - NCB - The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise as some count slowness, but is patient toward you, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance.
John 10:28-30 - NCB - I give them eternal life, and they will never perish. No one will ever snatch them from my hand. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one can snatch them out of the Fathers hand. I and the Father are one.
Psalm 27:3 - NCB - Even if an army encamps against me, my heart will not succumb to fear; even if war breaks out against me, I will not have my trust shaken.
Leviticus 20:26 - NCB - You shall be holy to me, for I the Lord am holy and have separated you from the peoples, that you should be mine.
2 Corinthians 8:12 - NCB - For if the readiness is there, it is acceptable according to what a person has, not according to what he does not have.
Hebrews 3:4 - NCB - For every house is built by someone, but the builder of all things is God.
Revelation 20:12-13 - NCB - And I saw the dead, great and small, standing before the throne, and books were opened. Then another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged by what was written in the books, according to what they had done. And the sea gave up the dead who were in it, Death and Hades gave up the dead who were in them, and they were judged, each one of them, according to what they had done.
Ezra 8:23 - NCB - So we fasted and implored our God for this, and he listened to our entreaty.
Matthew 5:37 - NCB - Let what you say be simply ‘Yes or ‘No; anything more than this comes from evil.
Psalm 119:111 - NCB - Your statutes are my everlasting heritage; they are the very joy of my heart.
Genesis 26:4-5 - NCB - I will multiply your offspring as the stars of heaven and will give to your offspring all these lands. And in your offspring all the nations of the earth shall be blessed, because Abraham obeyed my voice and kept my charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws.
Lamentations 3:40 - NCB - Let us examine and test our ways and return to the Lord.
1 Timothy 5:8 - NCB - But if anyone does not provide for his relatives, and especially for members of his household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever.
Nahum 1:7 - NCB - The Lord is good, an unfailing refuge in a time of distress. He takes care of those who place their trust in him.
Psalm 42:8 - NCB - The depths of the sea resound in the roar of your waterfalls; all your waves and your breakers sweep over me.
James 5:14-15 - NCB - Is anyone among you sick? Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer of faith will save the one who is sick, and the Lord will raise him up. And if he has committed sins, he will be forgiven.
Romans 13:14 - NCB - But put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh, to gratify its desires.
Romans 11:36 - NCB - For from him and through him and for him are all things. To him be the glory forever! Amen.
Proverbs 19:8 - NCB - Whoever gains wisdom loves his own soul; one who cherishes understanding will prosper.
Matthew 5:19 - NCB - Therefore whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of heaven, but whoever does them and teaches them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven.
2 Corinthians 9:7 - NCB - Each one must give as he has decided in his heart, not reluctantly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver.
Luke 15:7 - NCB - Just so, I tell you, there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous persons who need no repentance.
Psalm 145:3 - NCB - Great is the Lord and worthy of the highest praise; no one can even begin to comprehend his greatness.
Isaiah 35:8 - NCB - A highway will be there that will be called the Way of Holiness. No one who is unclean may pass over it; it will serve as a path for pilgrims and no fool will be able to use it.
Proverbs 16:8 - NCB - It is better to have little and be righteous than to acquire great riches with injustice.
Exodus 15:26 - NCB - If you will diligently listen to the voice of the Lord your God, and do that which is right in his eyes, and give ear to his commandments and keep all his statutes, I will put none of the diseases on you that I put on the Egyptians, for I am the Lord, your healer.
Romans 2:1 - NCB - Therefore you have no excuse, O man, every one of you who judges. For in passing judgment on another you condemn yourself, because you, the judge, practice the very same things.
2 Thessalonians 1:3 - NCB - We ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers, as is right, because your faith is growing abundantly, and the love of every one of you for one another is increasing.
Matthew 27:37 - NCB - And they put up over His head the accusation written against Him: THIS IS JESUS THE KING OF THE JEWS.
Exodus 23:25 - NCB - You shall serve the Lord your God, and he will bless your bread and your water, and I will take sickness away from among you.
Philippians 4:9 - NCB - What you have learned and received and heard and seen in me—practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you.
Proverbs 24:14 - NCB - In much the same manner will wisdom be sweet to your soul. If you find it, you will have a future, and your hope will not be cut off.
2 Corinthians 5:1 - NCB - For we know that if the tent that is our earthly home is destroyed, we have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens.
Ecclesiastes 1:18 - NCB - For much wisdom can result in much sorrow, and those who increase their knowledge also increase their grief.
Matthew 6:26 - NCB - Look at the birds of the air: they neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they?
Luke 8:16 - NCB - No one after lighting a lamp covers it with a jar or puts it under a bed, but puts it on a stand, so that those who enter may see the light.
John 13:20 - NCB - Amen, amen, I say to you, whoever receives the one I send receives me, and whoever receives me receives the one who sent me.
Psalm 145:18 - NCB - The Lord is near to all who call out to him, to all who call out to him sincerely.
Galatians 3:22 - NCB - But the Scripture imprisoned everything under sin, so that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe.
James 1:12 - NCB - Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, for when he has stood the test he will receive the crown of life, which God has promised to those who love him.
John 3:18 - NCB - Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe in him already stands condemned, because he has not believed in the name of the only-begotten Son of God.
2 Timothy 2:11 - NCB - This saying can be trusted: If we have died with him, we shall also live with him.
1 John 5:20 - NCB - We also know that the Son of God has come and given us understanding so that we can know the one who is true. And we are in the one who is true, since we are in his Son Jesus Christ. He is the true God and eternal life.
Matthew 20:18-19 - NCB - See, we are going up to Jerusalem. And the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priests and scribes, and they will condemn him to death and deliver him over to the Gentiles to be mocked and flogged and crucified, and he will be raised on the third day.
Psalm 55:23 - NCB - Entrust your cares to the Lord, and he will uphold you; he will never allow the righteous to waver.
Psalm 34:23 - NCB - The Lord redeems the lives of those who serve him; no one will be condemned who takes refuge in him.
Psalm 95:6 - NCB - Come forth! Let us bow down to worship him; let us kneel before the Lord, our Maker.
Philippians 1:21 - NCB - For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.
Romans 5:3-4 - NCB - Not only that, but we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance, and endurance produces character, and character produces hope.
1 Corinthians 12:12 - NCB - For just as the body is one and has many members, and all the members of the body, though many, are one body, so it is with Christ.
Proverbs 27:10 - NCB - Do not forsake your friend or the friend of your father, and do not run to your brothers house when troubles befall you; far better is a friend nearby than a brother who is far away.
Romans 12:14 - NCB - Bless those who persecute you; bless and do not curse them.
Psalm 119:160 - NCB - Every word you utter is true, and all your righteous judgments are everlasting.
Acts 1:9 - NCB - And when he had said these things, as they were looking on, he was lifted up, and a cloud took him out of their sight.
Psalm 73:25 - NCB - Whom do I have in heaven except you? And besides you there is nothing else I desire on earth.
Mark 1:15 - NCB - The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand; repent and believe in the gospel.
Proverbs 8:13 - NCB - The fear of the Lord implies hatred of evil; I hate pride and arrogance, evil ways and perverse speech.
2 Corinthians 5:17 - NCB - Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away; behold, the new has come.
Colossians 3:12 - NCB - Put on then, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, compassionate hearts, kindness, humility, meekness, and patience.
Romans 8:8 - NCB - Those who are in the flesh cannot please God.
2 Thessalonians 3:16 - NCB - Now may the Lord of peace himself give you peace at all times in every way. The Lord be with you all.
1 Corinthians 15:22 - NCB - For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ shall all be made alive.
Matthew 20:26-27 - NCB - It shall not be so among you. But whoever would be great among you must be your servant, and whoever would be first among you must be your slave.
Mark 11:24 - NCB - Therefore I tell you, whatever you ask in prayer, believe that you have received it, and it will be yours.
1 John 3:1 - NCB - See what love the Father has bestowed on us, enabling us to be called the children of God, and that is what we are. If the world does not recognize us, that is because it did not know him.
Proverbs 4:25 - NCB - Let your eyes look straight ahead; fix your gaze on what lies before you.
John 15:7 - NCB - If you abide in me and my words abide in you, you may ask for whatever you wish, and it will be done for you.
Micah 5:1 - NCB - But from you, O Bethlehem Ephrathah, among the tiniest of the clans of Judah, from you will come forth for me one who is to be a ruler in Israel, one whose origins are from the distant past, from ancient times.
Luke 1:30-31 - NCB - And the angel said to her, "Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus."
2 Timothy 2:22 - NCB - So flee youthful passions and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace, along with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart.
Luke 23:34 - NCB - Jesus said, "Father, forgive them, for they dont know what they are doing." Dividing his garments among them, they cast lots.
Psalm 25:5 - NCB - Guide me in your truth and instruct me, for you are God, my Savior, and in you I hope all the day long.
Psalm 32:3 - NCB - As long as I remained silent, my body wasted away as the result of my groaning throughout the day.
Proverbs 10:28 - NCB - The hope of the righteous brings them joy, but the expectations of the wicked are frustrated.
Isaiah 53:3 - NCB - He was despised and shunned by others, a man of sorrows who was no stranger to suffering. We loathed him and regarded him as of no account, as one from whom men avert their gaze.
Jeremiah 29:12 - NCB - Then you will call upon me and come and pray to me, and I will hear you.
Hebrews 12:2 - NCB - Looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God.
Ecclesiastes 4:9 - NCB - Two are better than one: they earn a far greater reward for their toil.
John 13:34 - NCB - I give you a new commandment: love one another. Just as I have loved you, so you should also love one another.
Ezekiel 18:23 - NCB - Have I any pleasure in the death of the wicked, declares the Lord God, and not rather that he should turn from his way and live?
Acts 2:33 - NCB - Being therefore exalted at the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured out this that you yourselves are seeing and hearing.
John 6:57 - NCB - Just as the living Father sent me and I have life because of the Father, so whoever feeds upon me will live because of me.
Luke 2:6-7 - NCB - And while they were there, the time came for her to give birth. And she gave birth to her firstborn son and wrapped him in swaddling cloths and laid him in a manger, because there was no place for them in the inn.
Isaiah 26:9 - NCB - My soul longs for you throughout the night, and my spirit within me seeks your presence. For when your judgments are revealed to the earth, the inhabitants of the world learn to practice justice.
Mark 10:45 - NCB - For even the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many.
Proverbs 19:14 - NCB - A house and wealth are inherited from parents, but a prudent wife is a gift from the Lord.
Mark 10:6-9 - NCB - But from the beginning of creation, ‘God made them male and female. ‘Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. So they are no longer two but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate.
Psalm 143:6 - NCB - I stretch out my hands to you; my soul thirsts for you like a parched land. Selah
2 Timothy 1:7 - NCB - For God gave us a spirit not of fear but of power and love and self-control.
Luke 12:3 - NCB - Therefore whatever you have said in the dark shall be heard in the light, and what you have whispered in private rooms shall be proclaimed on the housetops.
Deuteronomy 8:6 - NCB - So you shall keep the commandments of the Lord your God by walking in his ways and by fearing him.
Romans 11:33 - NCB - Oh, the depth of the riches of the wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable his judgments, and his paths beyond tracing out!
Joshua 1:9 - NCB - Have I not commanded you? Be strong and courageous. Do not be frightened, and do not be dismayed, for the Lord your God is with you wherever you go.
Luke 13:3 - NCB - No, I tell you; but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish.
Ephesians 1:18 - NCB - Having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which he has called you, what are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints.
Psalm 5:13 - NCB - Truly, you bless the righteous, O Lord; you surround them with your goodwill as with a shield.
1 John 3:8 - NCB - Everyone who sins comes from the devil, for the devil has been a sinner from the very beginning. The Son of God appeared for this very purpose: to destroy the work of the devil.
Psalm 9:2 - NCB - I will offer praise to you, O Lord, with my whole heart; I will recount all your wondrous deeds.
Revelation 3:19 - NCB - Those whom I love, I reprove and discipline, so be zealous and repent.
Isaiah 44:22 - NCB - I have swept away your transgressions like a cloud and your sins like a mist. Return to me, for I have redeemed you.
Psalm 97:10 - NCB - Let those who love the Lord hate evil, for he protects the souls of his faithful ones and rescues them from the hand of the wicked.
Proverbs 16:9 - NCB - A man may plan his own course, but the Lord makes his steps secure.
Ecclesiastes 5:18 - NCB - Everyone also to whom God has given wealth and possessions and power to enjoy them, and to accept his lot and rejoice in his toil—this is the gift of God.
2 Peter 1:3 - NCB - His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness, through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and excellence.
Galatians 5:4 - NCB - You are severed from Christ, you who would be justified by the law; you have fallen away from grace.
Luke 11:28 - NCB - But he said, "Blessed rather are those who hear the word of God and keep it!"
Romans 13:8 - NCB - Owe no one anything, except to love each other, for the one who loves another has fulfilled the law.
Proverbs 13:3 - NCB - He who guards his mouth makes his life secure, but one who talks excessively ensures his own downfall.
Isaiah 65:1 - NCB - I was eager to respond to those who did not consult me. I was anxious to be approached by those who did not seek me. I said, "Here I am! Here I am!" to a nation that did not summon me.
Psalm 119:133 - NCB - Guide my steps in accord with your word and never let evil triumph over me.
Ephesians 6:18 - NCB - Praying at all times in the Spirit, with all prayer and supplication. To that end, keep alert with all perseverance, making supplication for all the saints.
Psalm 138:8 - NCB - The Lord will fulfill his plan for me. Your kindness, O Lord, endures forever; do not forsake the work of your hands.
John 6:29 - NCB - Jesus replied, "This is the work of God: to believe in the one whom he has sent."
1 Corinthians 1:28-29 - NCB - God chose what is low and despised in the world, even things that are not, to bring to nothing things that are, so that no human being might boast in the presence of God.
Hebrews 6:10 - NCB - For God is not unjust so as to overlook your work and the love that you have shown for his name in serving the saints, as you still do.
1 Corinthians 2:2 - NCB - For I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified.
Proverbs 27:19 - NCB - Just as water reflects ones face, so does one human heart reflect another.
Acts 2:3-4 - NCB - And divided tongues as of fire appeared to them and rested on each one of them. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance.
Psalm 19:9 - NCB - The precepts of the Lord are right, causing the heart to rejoice. The commands of the Lord are clear, giving light to the eyes.
1 Corinthians 6:9-10 - NCB - Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived: neither the sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality, nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God.
Lamentations 5:19 - NCB - But you, O Lord, reign forever; your throne endures from age to age.
Matthew 6:11 - NCB - Give us this day our daily bread.
3 John 1:4 - NCB - I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth.
Psalm 79:9 - NCB - Help us, O God, our Savior, for the glory of your name; deliver us and wipe away our sins for your names sake.
Proverbs 10:2 - NCB - Treasures obtained by wicked means profit nothing, but a righteous life brings delivery from death.
Matthew 7:13-14 - NCB - Enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide and the way is easy that leads to destruction, and those who enter by it are many. For the gate is narrow and the way is hard that leads to life, and those who find it are few.
Amos 5:14 - NCB - Seek good and not evil, so that you may live. Then the Lord, the God of hosts, will be with you as you claim he is.
Proverbs 31:10 - NCB - Who can find a worthy wife? She is far more precious than pearls.
Genesis 3:22-23 - NCB - Then the Lord God said, "Behold, the man has become like one of us in knowing good and evil. Now, lest he reach out his hand and take also of the tree of life and eat, and live forever—" therefore the Lord God sent him out from the garden of Eden to work the ground from which he was taken.
Genesis 1:27 - NCB - So God created humankind in his image, in the image of God he created them; male and female he created them.
Psalm 25:6-7 - NCB - Be mindful, O Lord, that mercy and kindness have been yours from of old. Remember not the sins of my youth or my many transgressions, but remember me in your kindness, for the sake of your goodness, O Lord.
Psalm 32:5 - NCB - Then I acknowledged my sin to you, and I made no attempt to conceal my guilt. I said, "I will confess my offenses to the Lord," and you removed the guilt of my sin. Selah
Matthew 5:27-28 - NCB - You have heard that it was said, ‘You shall not commit adultery. But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lustful intent has already committed adultery with her in his heart.
Psalm 31:20 - NCB - How great is your goodness, O Lord, which you have stored up for those who fear you and which you bestow on those who take refuge in you, in the presence of all the people.
Jeremiah 17:7-8 - NCB - Blessed are those who trust in the Lord and whose hope is the Lord. They will be like a tree planted by the water that spreads out its roots to the stream. When the heat comes, it does not fear; its leaves stay green. It is not concerned in a year of drought, and it never fails to bear fruit.
John 20:21 - NCB - "Peace be with you," Jesus said to them again. "As the Father has sent me, so I send you."
Psalm 31:4 - NCB - You are truly my rock and my fortress; for the sake of your name, lead and guide me.
Romans 12:11 - NCB - Do not be slothful in zeal, be fervent in spirit, serve the Lord.
Matthew 10:39 - NCB - Whoever finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for my sake will find it.
Romans 13:1 - NCB - Let every person be subject to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God, and those that exist have been instituted by God.
Hebrews 8:6 - NCB - But as it is, Christ has obtained a ministry that is as much more excellent than the old as the covenant he mediates is better, since it is enacted on better promises.
Proverbs 18:16 - NCB - A gift opens doors for the giver and wins him access to the powerful.
Deuteronomy 30:16 - NCB - If you obey the commandments of the Lord your God that I command you today, by loving the Lord your God, by walking in his ways, and by keeping his commandments and his statutes and his rules, then you shall live and multiply, and the Lord your God will bless you in the land that you are entering to take possession of it.
Matthew 19:18b-19 - NCB - You shall not murder, You shall not commit adultery, You shall not steal, You shall not bear false witness, Honor your father and mother, and, You shall love your neighbor as yourself.
Ecclesiastes 5:17 - NCB - Behold, what I have seen to be good and fitting is to eat and drink and find enjoyment in all the toil with which one toils under the sun the few days of his life that God has given him, for this is his lot.
Hosea 13:6 - NCB - When I fed them, they were satisfied; when they were satisfied, they became proud of heart and quickly forgot me.
John 8:31-32 - NCB - Then Jesus said to those Jews who did believe in him, "If you remain faithful to my word, you will truly be my disciples. You will know the truth, and the truth will set you free."
John 14:2 - NCB - In my Fathers house there are many dwelling places. If there were not, would I have told you that I am going to prepare a place for you?
Psalm 143:1 - NCB - O Lord, hear my prayer, incline your ear to my supplications. In your faithfulness respond to me with your righteousness.
Deuteronomy 5:33 - NCB - You shall walk in all the way that the Lord your God has commanded you, that you may live, and that it may go well with you, and that you may live long in the land that you shall possess.
1 Corinthians 16:13 - NCB - Be watchful, stand firm in the faith, act like men, be strong.
Psalm 91:1-2 - NCB - You who abide in the shelter of the Most High, who rest in the shadow of the Almighty, say to the Lord, "You are my refuge and my fortress, my God in whom I place my trust."
Luke 22:20 - NCB - And likewise the cup after they had eaten, saying, "This cup that is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood."
Matthew 6:7 - NCB - And when you pray, do not heap up empty phrases as the Gentiles do, for they think that they will be heard for their many words.
Ephesians 2:4-5 - NCB - But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ—by grace you have been saved.
Psalm 34:9 - NCB - Taste and see that the Lord is good; blessed is the man who takes refuge in him.
Colossians 3:13 - NCB - Bearing with one another and, if one has a complaint against another, forgiving each other; as the Lord has forgiven you, so you also must forgive.
Romans 8:35 - NCB - Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword?
Revelation 3:20 - NCB - Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in to him and eat with him, and he with me.
Mark 16:6 - NCB - And he said to them, "Do not be alarmed. You seek Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified. He has risen; he is not here. See the place where they laid him."
1 John 2:2 - NCB - He is himself the sacrifice for our sins— and not only for our sins but also for the sins of the whole world.
Matthew 24:26-27 - NCB - So, if they say to you, ‘Look, he is in the wilderness, do not go out. If they say, ‘Look, he is in the inner rooms, do not believe it. For as the lightning comes from the east and shines as far as the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man.
Hebrews 12:1 - NCB - Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us.
Matthew 18:20 - NCB - For where two or three are gathered in my name, there am I among them.
Job 23:10-11 - NCB - And yet he is aware of everywhere I go; if he were to test me, I would emerge like pure gold. My footsteps have not strayed from the path he established; I have followed his way and never turned aside.
Proverbs 14:5 - NCB - A truthful witness does not lie, but a false witness lies incessantly.
2 Timothy 4:18 - NCB - The Lord will rescue me from every evil deed and bring me safely into his heavenly kingdom. To him be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
1 Samuel 12:24 - NCB - Only fear the Lord and serve him faithfully with all your heart. For consider what great things he has done for you.
Acts 22:7 - NCB - And I fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to me, ‘Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?
Romans 12:9 - NCB - Let love be genuine. Abhor what is evil; hold fast to what is good.
Matthew 5:4 - NCB - Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted.
Matthew 16:26 - NCB - For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his soul? Or what shall a man give in return for his soul?
Psalm 145:1 - NCB - I will extol you, my God and King; I will bless your name forever and ever.
John 16:24 - NCB - Until now, in my name, you have not asked for anything. Ask and you will receive, so that your joy may be complete.
Proverbs 12:1 - NCB - Whoever loves discipline loves knowledge, but the one who hates correction is stupid.
Matthew 5:34-35 - NCB - But I say to you, Do not take an oath at all, either by heaven, for it is the throne of God, or by the earth, for it is his footstool, or by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great King.
Genesis 50:20 - NCB - As for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good, to bring it about that many people should be kept alive, as they are today.
Exodus 22:21-23 - NCB - You shall not mistreat any widow or fatherless child. If you do mistreat them, and they cry out to me, I will surely hear their cry, and my wrath will burn, and I will kill you with the sword, and your wives shall become widows and your children fatherless.
1 Corinthians 10:31 - NCB - So, whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God.
Proverbs 21:3 - NCB - To do what is right and just is more acceptable to the Lord than sacrifice.
Psalm 34:15 - NCB - Shun evil and do good; seek peace and pursue it.
Romans 12:21 - NCB - Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good.
Romans 10:17 - NCB - So faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ.
Psalm 108:4 - NCB - I will give thanks to you among the peoples, O Lord; I will sing your praises among the nations.
Proverbs 23:24 - NCB - The father of a good man will rejoice; he who begets a wise son will delight in him.
Romans 6:23 - NCB - For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.
Acts 2:46-47 - NCB - And day by day, attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they received their food with glad and generous hearts, praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to their number day by day those who were being saved.
Ecclesiastes 5:14 - NCB - Just as he came forth naked from his mothers womb, so shall he depart, naked as he came, with nothing remaining from his labor that he can carry away in his hands.
